.na
.nh
.TH addtostack 1 4.6.34 BL3DEMC
.SH NAME
addtostack - add sections to end of existing stack
.SH SYNOPSIS
addtostack
.SH DESCRIPTION
Addtostack will append sections from one or more files to an
existing image file.  The X and Y dimensions of all files must match.
All sections will be appended from the files that are being added.
No image transformation or scaling is performed.  The header of the
resulting image file will be set to give "pixel spacing" of 1 (grid
and cell sizes equal to image size).
.P
There is one option: whether or not to make a copy of the existing
file before adding sections to it.  If you elect to make a copy,
this will take some extra time and will require the disk space to
hold 2 copies of the file.  You will then be able to examine the new
file to see if it meets your expectations before deleting the old
file with a purge command.  If you do not make a copy, the program
will run quicker and less disk space will be required, but it is
conceivable that the file will become unusable if certain types of
errors occur.  (If you specify a non-existent file or one of the
wrong size, or if there is an error reading one of the files, the
file being appended to will NOT become unusable.)
.P
Entries to the program:
.P
Name of file to append to
.P
0 to append to existing file, or 1 to make new copy and append to it
.P
Number of files to append to the file
.P
Names of these files, one per line
.P
.SH HISTORY
.nf
Written by David Mastronarde, 5/28/90
.fi
.SH BUGS
Email bug reports to mast@colorado.edu.
