.na
.nh
.TH archiveorig 1 2.6.4 BL3DEMC
.SH NAME
archiveorig \- Archive/restore original data after X-ray removal
.SH SYNOPSIS
archiveorig  [options]  setname.st
.SH DESCRIPTION
archiveorig is a Python script that allows one to create a small file to
archive original data after removing X-rays with Ccderaser(1).  This
eliminates the huge redundancy in archiving the both original and X-ray
removed data.  The script assumes that files are named with the conventions
that eTomo uses.  Specifically, when the input file is given as setname.st,
the original stack is assumed to be named setname_orig.st.  The program then
computes the difference between the original and X-ray removed stack and uses
gzip compression of the difference file, which is named setname_xray.st.gz.  The
resulting file should be ~2 MB for a 1 GB data stack.
.P
The entire process of removing X-rays, renaming a stack as setname_orig.st,
and archiving the difference can be repeated several times.  To allow all
changes to be retained and reversed if desired, programs that do the renaming
of setname.st to setname_orig.st also rename an existing setname_xray.st.gz by adding a
number to the end.  The first time, 1 is added; after than, a number 1 higher
than the highest existing number is added.  The programs that do this are
eTomo and Batchruntomo(1).  
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -d
Delete setname_orig.st after successfully producing setname_xray.st.gz.  By
default, the file is left for the user to delete.
.TP
.B -r
Restore setname_orig.st from setname_xray.st.gz and setname.st.  The X-ray 
removed stack (setname.st) must be present to perform this operation.  The
file setname_xray.st.gz is renamed to setname_xray.st.gz.old.
.TP
.B -n #
Restore the given number of levels of archives, not just the last level
that created setname_xray.st.gz.  For example, if archiving has been done 3
times, there will be files setname_xray.st.gz, setname_xray.st.gz.1, and
setname_xray.st.gz.2.  Entering "-n 3" will use all three files to recreate
the original stack.  Entering "-n 2" will use files setname_xray.st.gz and
setname_xray.st.gz.2 to recreate the stack that existed after the first round
of X-ray removal.  In order to get back to the original stack at that point,
there are three methods available: 1) save setname.st by renaming it, rename
setname_orig.st to setname.st, and run this program just with "-r".  2) Rename
setname_xray.st.gz.2.old to setname_xray.st.gz.2 and setname_xray.st.gz.old to
setname_xray.st.gz, and run this program with "-r -n 3".  3) Run this program
with "-d" then run it again with "-r -n 2".
.TP 
.B -P
Output process ID.
.SH FILES
If the final output file already exists a backup image
of the original is created
with the ~ extension.
.SH AUTHOR
David Mastronarde  <mast@colorado.edu>
.SH SEE ALSO
ccderaser(1), subimage(1)
