.na
.nh
.TH assemblevol 1 4.6.34 BL3DEMC
.SH NAME
assemblevol - assemble an image file from an array of subvolumes
.SH SYNOPSIS
assemblevol
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
Assemblevol will assemble a single MRC file from separate files that form an
array of subvolumes in X, Y, and Z.  In effect, it can take montaged images
and compose them into single images, just as Reducemont(1) can, but its
advantage is that it can take the images from multiple files.  Its primary
use is for reassembling a tomogram after it has been chopped into pieces,
using the coordinates output by Tomopieces(1).  A second use to concatenate
reprojections computed in parallel by Tilt(1).
.P
Inputs to the program:
.P
Name of output file for the assembled volume
.P
Number of input files in the X, Y and Z dimensions
.P
For each position in X, enter a line with the starting and ending X index
coordinates (numbered from 0) to be extracted from the files at that
position.  These coordinates should be chosen to eliminate any overlap
between the files at successive positions.  For example, if there are
two files in X, each 1000 pixels wide, and they overlap by 20 pixels, you
would enter 0,989 and 10,999.  If there is no overlap between any of the
files in X, you can enter 0,0 for each position, but you can not enter 0,0
for some positions and actual coordinates for others.
.P
Similarly, for each position in Y, enter a line with starting and ending Y
index coordinates to be extracted from files at that position.  Again, if
there is no overlap between any of the files in Y, you can enter 0,0 for
each position.
.P
For each position in Z, enter a line with starting and ending Z index
coordinates to be extracted from files at that position.  If there is no
overlap between any of the files in Y, you can enter 0,0 for each position.
.P
The input file names, one per line, in order by increasing X, then
increasing Y, then increasing Z.  For example, if there are files only in X
and Z, enter all of the files in the first row in Z in order by increasing
X, then the files in the second row, etc.
.SH HISTORY
.nf
Written by David Mastronarde  3/1/01
.fi
.SH BUGS
Email bug reports to mast@colorado.edu.
