.na
.nh
.TH avgstatplot 1 4.6.34 BL3DEMC
.SH NAME
avgstatplot - to plot the output of IMAVGSTAT
.SH SYNOPSIS
avgstatplot
.SH DESCRIPTION
Avgstatplot is an interactive program for displaying and plotting the
output of the program Imavgstat(1).
.P
This output consists of mean, standard deviation, and standard error
of the mean for all of the summing areas in a series of different
data sets.  The summing areas were derived from a set of summing
regions specified by an IMOD model; each summing region was divided
into one or more summing areas.  In a single plot, you can include
any collection of summing regions for any collection of data sets.
When you select a summing region, points for all of the areas within
that region are plotted, connected by lines.  There are no lines
connecting the different summing regions for a data set, but those
different regions will all appear with the same symbol type.
.P
Symbol types are selected by number, but the numbers have different
meanings for symbols in the graphics window and in a Postscript plot.
See the man page for Genhstplt(1) for details.
.P
Each of the data sets included in a plot may be rescaled
independently; i.e. a particular linear scaling may be applied to all
of the points in a data set, a different scaling may be applied to
all points in another set, etc.  It is also possible to apply the
same scaling, or the same form of scaling, to all data sets without
entering values for each set separately.  Scaling may be specified
in four ways:  1) One may directly specify a factor to multiply by
and a factor to add.  4)  One may specify that the values for a set
are all to be divided by the value for a specified area of that set.
3) One may specify that a given set should have its values shifted
(without any multiplication) so that the mean of a particular
collection of summing regions matches the corresponding mean for
some other data set.  4) One may do a least-squares linear
regression between the data points of the set being scaled and the
corresponding data points of some other set, and use the
coefficients of the regression to determine the scaling factors.
The data points used for regression are the means from the summing
areas within a particular collection of summing regions.
.P
If you are displaying only one region, and it has more than 20
summing areas, then you have two options.  First, you are allowed
to select a subset of the areas for display.  Second, you may average
together successive segments of areas.  This is useful for obtaining
an average density tracing for a periodic, repeating structure.
.P
Entries to the program are now described in order as they are first
encountered.  After looking at one graph, one may loop back to a
variety of different points in order to change different parameters.
.P
Name of statistics file output by IMAVGSTAT
.P
0 for plots in the graphics window, or 1 for plots only on the
   terminal.  Note that if you need to use terminal plots, you will
   need to specify that option each time that you do a plot.
.P
List of numbers of the sets to include in the graph.  Sets are
   numbered from 1.  You can enter ranges separated by commas,
   e.g. 1-3,7-9
.P
List of symbol types for these sets.  Ranges may be entered, but the
   total number of types specified must equal the total number of
   sets.
.P
List of numbers of the regions to include in the plot.  Ranges are OK
.P
IF you enter only one region, and that region has more than 20 areas,
   then make the following two entries:
.P
   Starting and ending areas to include in display, or / for all.
.P
   / for no averaging of areas; or the interval over which to average
      areas (i.e. the period of the repeat, which need not be an
      integer value), the number of areas to roll (shift) the display
      (+ or - to shift to the right or left), and the number of areas
      to add to the display by replication.  Such areas will be added
      symmetrically, half to the beginning and half to the end of
      the display.  For example, if there are 10 repeats in 564
      areas, enter 56.4,0,0 the first time and examine the display.
      If you find that the structure that you wish to appear in the
      middle of the display (area 29 of 56) is located to the left,
      say in area 20, then you need to shift by 9.  If you want to
      display 1.5 repeats, then you need to add 28 areas to the
      display.  Thus, on a second time through, enter 56.4,9,28.
.P
Enter a small positive value for error bars whose size is the
   standard error of the mean times that that value; or a negative
   value for error bars that are that value times the standard
   deviation; or a large positive value for error bars showing
   confidence limits with that percentage of confidence; or 0 for
   no error bars.
.P
0 to plot the means of the summing areas, or 1 to plot the integrals,
   which are the means times the number of pixels.
.P
List of numbers of sets to rescale - ranges may be entered, or just
   Return for no rescaling, or enter / to select either all sets or
   the sets selected last time, as indicated by the prompt.
.P
IF you select rescaling, first enter 0 to specify scaling separately
   for each set, or 1 to apply the similar scaling to all sets.
.P
IF you select rescaling, next make the following entries for each
   set that you specified for rescaling:
.P
   0 to specify scaling factors directly, 999 to divide values by the
     value in one area, or the number of another data set, if you
     wish to regress this set against the other set, or the negative
     of the number of another set, if you wish to shift this set to
     have the same mean as that set.
.P
   IF you entered 0, next enter the factor to multiply by, and the
     amount to add after multiplication
.P
   IF you entered 999, next enter the region number, and the number
     of the area within that region, to divide by.
.P
   BUT, IF you entered a set number, next enter a list of the numbers
     of the regions to use for comparing the two data sets.
.P
Amount to offset each data set from the last in the X direction (as a
   fraction of distance between successive summing areas.
.P
After the last entry, you enter the subroutine BSPLT, whose operation
is described in its man page (Bsplt(1)).
.P
When you return from BSPLT, enter one of the following:
1 to loop back to the entry of the number of SEM's or SD's for error
   bars
2 to loop back to entering the list of regions to plot
3 to loop back to entering the list of data sets and their symbols
4 to loop all the way back and read a new data file
5 to plot the current Postscript file on the workstation screen
6 to plot the current Postscript file on the printer
7 to type values to screen or output to file in tabular format
8 to exit
.P
If you plot the current Postscript file (gmeta.ps), that file will
be closed and new plots will be placed in a new version of the file.
Thus, if you plot the file on the workstation screen, be sure to rename it
or plot it on the printer before generating any new plots, unless you don't
want any printout of it.
.P
If you elect option 7 to type values in tabular format, you will get
the scaled values just displayed in the last graph.  Enter a file
name to have the table printed into a file, or Return to have it
types on the screen.  If the file already exists, the table will be
appended to the file.
.P
.SH HISTORY
.nf
Written by  David Mastronarde  1/23/90
.fi
.SH BUGS
Email bug reports to mast@colorado.edu.
