.na
.nh
.TH bsplt 1 4.6.34 BL3DEMC
.SH NAME
BSPLT - an interactive 2-D plotting routine called by Genhstplt
       and other programs
.SH DESCRIPTION
Subroutine BSPLT allows one to plot one variable against another,
with graphical display in a graphics window
and output to a Postscript printing file.
.P
The first entry controls where the graph is displayed; it is not asked if
the calling program (e.g., Genhstplt(1)) was told to always use screen
plots:
   0 for plot in the graphics window (which must have been enabled by
      selecting the appropriate option in the calling program)
   1 for plot on the terminal
.P
The next entry allows you to type or file the data or allows you to
specify some aspects of a Postscript plot:
   0 for none of these options
   1 to type the data on the terminal
   -1 to store the data in the file
   n+1 to draw n lines in Postscript plot; e.g. 4 to draw 3 lines
   -n-1 to connect points with lines of thickness n in the Postscript
      plot; e.g. -2 to connect with lines of thickness 1.  For
      standard usage of the routine, subtract 100 to connect only
      points within the same (e.g. -102).  When the routine is
      called specifically to generate error bars, it will connect
      only within groups with -n-1, and subtracting 100 will make
      it connect all points.  Sorry about this.
.P
IF you elect to write the data to a file, next enter a file name.
   If the file already exists, the data will be appended to the file.
.P
The next entry can select a Postscript plot:
   0 for no plot - return to calling program
   6, 7, 8, 9 for Postscript plots in the upper left, lower left,
      upper right, or lower right quadrants of a page, or 10 to left,
      specify the size and location of the graph on the page.  The
      range of X and Y units plotted will be the same as in the
      plot on the screen.
   -6 to -10 for plots in the fixed or specified location, if you
      wish to change the range of X and Y units that will be plotted
      or control the number of ticks, and the grid and symbol size
      and thickness
.P
IF you selected a negative plot number, next make these entries:
.P
   Lower and upper limits of the range of X units to be plotted,
      lower and upper limits for Y, and the number of ticks for the
      X and for the Y axis.  If one or both of these units are
      logarithmic, you will be informed of the range of the actual
      values (not of their logarithms), and you can then enter the
      lower and upper limits of the actual values, not of the
      logarithms.  For a linear axis, the "number of ticks" is
      actually the number of divisions along the axis; but for a
      logarithmic axis, it is the number of tick marks, which is
      the number of divisions plus 1.  Sorry again.  Enter negative
      the number of ticks to get unidirectional ticks.
.P
   Tick and symbol size (in inches), grid and symbol thickness (small
      integers), 1 for a complete box, i.e. axes on all 4 sides.
      If you selected unidirectional ticks, positive and negative
      tick lengths give ticks toward the inside and outside of the
      box, respectively.
.P
   If you are plotting error bars, next enter the total length of
      ticks at the ends of the bars, in inches.
.P
IF you selected graph 10 (or -10), make these entries:
      X and Y size of graph, and lower left X and Y coordinates, in
      inches.  Enter the negative of the left X coordinate to offset
      the vertical grid lines from the edge of the graphing area,
      and/or the negative of the lower Y coordinate to offset the
      horizontal grid lines.  (Sorry again)
.P
   IF you entered a negative left X coordinate, enter the amount to
      offset the vertical grid lines in the X direction
.P
   IF you entered a negative lower Y coordinate, enter the amount to
      offset the horizontal grid lines in the Y direction
.P
   IF you are plotting fraction boxes, enter the box width, height
      and tick size
.P
IF you selected a graph and are plotting Tukey box plots, enter:
      Width of box, size of tick at 10/90% points, gap between
      ticks and outlying points (points closer than this amount to
      a tick will be omitted), and line thickness.  The first three
      values are all in inches.
.P
IF you selected a graph, enter 1 for a new page, or 0 to plot on the
   same page as any previous graphs
.P
IF you selected a negative graph number and the X-axis is
logarithmic, enter the values at which X ticks should be drawn
.P
IF you selected a negative graph number and the Y-axis is
logarithmic, enter the values at which Y ticks should be drawn
.P
IF you said that you wanted to draw some lines, next enter the
   specification for each line.  The format is:
   Slope (Y/X), Y-intercept, starting and ending X coordinate (all in
   your units, not inches), line thickness (small integer), and
   0,0 for a solid line or length of dash and length between dashes
   for a dashed line.  If you enter the negative of line thickness,
   then X and Y are inverted, so the entries are the X/Y slope, the
   X-intercept, and the starting and ending Y coordinates.
.P
IF you selected a negative graph number, then you can next make many
   entries to label the axes and add other symbols and lines to the
   graph.
.P
First, for the X axis, enter:
.P
   # of ticks to label with numeric labels, and number of lines of
      text labels.
.P
   IF you specified a nonzero number of ticks to label, next enter:
.P
     If the ticks are to be labeled at regular intervals, enter the
        number of the first tick to label (first tick is #1) and
        the interval between labeled ticks (e.g. 2 for every other
        tick or enter 0,0 to specify a list of ticks to label.
.P
        IF you entered 0,0, next enter the #'s of the ticks to label
.P
     Labels for the ticks, in one line, separated by commas or spaces
.P
     Numeric label size and separation from axis, in inches
.P
   IF you specified a nonzero number of text labels, next enter for
       each label in turn:
.P
      Text label size, separation from axis, and offset along axis
           between center of axis and center of text.
.P
      Text label
.P
Next enter these parameters in the same order for the Y axis
.P
Finally, the program calls the IMMISC subroutine.  Here, coordinates
   may be specified in one of three ways independently for each of
   the entries to the program.  The coordinates may be in "user"
   units (the units of the numbers being graphed), in absolute units
   of inches on the plotter page, or in units relative to the frame
   of the graph (e.g. 0.1,0.9 for a position in the upper left
   corner, or 0.5,1.1 for a position centered above the graph frame).
.P
   Enter the number of text labels, # of letters in circles,
      # of symbols in boxes, and # of dashed or solid lines to draw
.P
   IF you entered a non-zero # of text labels, then for each, enter:
.P
      X and Y position, and 0 for user or 1 for absolute or -1 for
          relative units
.P
      0 to center, -1 to left justify, or 1 to right justify the
          character string on this position
.P
      Size of characters in inches, and orientation angle in
          degrees (usually 0 or 90)
.P
      Text, on one line
.P
   IF you entered a non-zero # of circled letters, then for each:
.P
      X and Y position, and 0 for user or 1 for absolute or -1 for
         relative units
.P
      Diameter of circle in inches, line thickness
.P
      Size of character in inches
.P
      Letter (upper case)
.P
   IF you entered a non-zero # of boxed symbols, then for each:
.P
      X and Y position, and 0 for user or 1 for absolute or -1 for
          relative units
.P
      Symbol type (or 0 for no symbol), symbol size in inches,
          symbol thickness (a small integer), box size in inches
          (or 0 for no box), box line thickness
.P
   IF you entered a non-zero # of lines, then for each, enter:
.P
       0 for user, 1 for absolute, or -1 for relative units
.P
       A line specification as described above, in the units just
           indicated
.P
NOTE FOR SIMPLEST USE: If you just want some standard graphs, with
the same scaling as appears on the screen, then there are only 4
entries:
   0 for graphics window, 1 for terminal plot
   0, or -2 if you need connected points
   6, 7, 8, or 9 (in that sequence)
   1 for new page
Be sure to note down the range of X and Y values plotted.
.SH BUGS
Email bug reports to mast@colorado.edu.
