.na
.nh
.TH colornewst 1 4.6.1 BL3DEMC
.SH NAME
colornewst -\ Run Newstack command on a color file
.SH SYNOPSIS
colornewst  [options]  input_file  output_file
.SH DESCRIPTION
Colornewst is a Python script to run Newstack(1) operations on a color file by
splitting the file into components with "clip splitrgb", running Newstack(1),
and recombining the components with "clip joinrgb".  Most options to
Newstack(1) can be included, but not 
.B -fileinlist,
.B -fileoutlist,
.B -split,
.B -replace,
.B -numout,
.B -skip,
.B -blank,
.B -onexform,
.B -exclude,
.B -input,
or
.B -output.
 There must be only one input file and one output file, specified as the last
 two arguments on the command line.  If placing options in a command file or
 script, always use at least three letters for the Newstack(1) options.
.P
The input file can be either an MRC file or a TIFF file.  If the input file is
a TIFF file, it will be converted to an MRC file with Tif2mrc(1) using no
options, and the processed MRC file will be converted to TIFF with Mrc2tif(1)
using the 
.B -s
option.  If any more complicated conversions are desired, run
the TIFF conversions separately with the desired options.  The program will
automatically treat the files as TIFF if the input filename ends
in ".tif", ".tiff", ".TIF", or ".TIFF" and the file is not an MRC file.
Otherwise, the 
.B -cntiff
option can be used to tell the program to treat
files as TIFF.
.P
If the input file is gray-scale instead of color, Newstack(1) will be run
directly on it with the given options.
.P
Colornewst itself takes the following options, which cannot be abbreviated.
These options can be intermixed with
the Newstack(1) options.  Two leading dashes are accepted, just as for
the Newstack options.
.TP
.B -cntiff
Convert the input file from TIFF to MRC, process it, and convert the processed
file to TIFF.  The option is not needed if the input filename ends in ".tif",
".tiff", ".TIF", or ".TIFF".
.TP
.B -cntempdir \fIdir\fR
Path to directory to use for temporary files, namely the red, green, and blue
components produced by "clip splitrgb" and files for each component processed
by Newstack(1).  The default is the standard temporary directory for IMOD
commands.
.TP
.B -cnmaxtemp \fI#\fR
Maximum amount of space to use in the temporary directory, in megabytes
(floating point values allowed).  The default is 1024.  When processing the
whole file at once would require more than this amount of space, the program
will process the file in chunks.
.TP
.B -cnverbose
Pass on the printed output from running Newstack(1) and the TIFF conversion
programs, if any.  The default is for this output to be swallowed.
.SH FILES
Temporary files are named starting with "colornewst.PID" and removed at the
end, if there is an error, or if the program is interrupted with Ctrl-C.  If
the output file exists, it is turned into a backup file by appending "~" to
the name unless the environment variable IMOD_NO_IMAGE_BACKUP is set.
.SH AUTHOR
David Mastronarde
.SH SEE ALSO
newstack(1), clip(1), tif2mrc(1), mrc2tif(1)
.SH BUGS
Email bug reports to mast@colorado.edu.

