.na
.nh
.TH contourmod 1 4.6.34 BL3DEMC
.SH NAME
contourmod - to generate contour maps as a model file
.SH SYNOPSIS
contourmod
.SH DESCRIPTION
Contourmod will generate contour maps of selected sections in an
image file and place them into an IMOD model that can then be
displayed on the images.  You can produce contours at regularly
spaced intervals or at individually specified levels.  Each contour
level may have a different color.
.P
The contours are lines connecting points spaced about 1 pixel apart
or less; thus a complete set of contour lines for one image can
have quite a large number of points, especially if the image is
large or has a lot of fine detail.  The program will give an error
message and stop adding points to the model if no further points can
fit in the model storage arrays.  If this happens when contouring
several sections, you need to make more than one model file.  If it
happens when contouring a single image, the image is too large or too
detailed and needs to be reduced in size or filtered.
.P
Entries to the program are:
.P
Name of file with images to contour
.P
Name of model file to place contours into
.P
List of sections to contour, or / for all sections in the image file.
Ranges may be entered, e.g. 0-2,5,7
.P
X and Y scaling factors to apply to the model relative to the image
pixels, or / for 1,1.  If you are going to display the contours on
an image that has been expanded by a certain factor with a
transformation, it is recommended that you generate the contours on
the original rather than the expanded image, so as to avoid getting
a contour model with a vast number of points.  In this case, you
would enter that expansion factor as the X and Y scaling factors, and
the contour model would fit the expanded images.
.P
Enter a positive number of contours for regularly spaced contours,
or the negative of the number of contours if you want to specify
each contour level individually.
.P
IF you entered a positive number greater than 1, next enter the
lowest and highest contour levels desired.
.P
IF you entered 0 or 1, instead enter the single contour level
desired.
.P
IF you entered a negative number, instead enter all of the desired
contour levels.
.P
Finally, enter an intensity level or color (0 to 255) for each
contour level.  If you might need to change the colors or turn any
contours off inside IMOD, it is recommended that you give each level
a unique color value.  For example, if you want several bright white
or several black lines, make them 240, 239, 238, etc or 0, 1, 2, etc.
.P
.SH HISTORY
.nf
Written by David Mastronarde 12/1/90, using CONTUR package from Tim Baker
.fi
.SH BUGS
Email bug reports to mast@colorado.edu.
