.TH cpuadoc 1 3.7.0 BL3DEMC
.na
.nh

.SH NAME
cpu.adoc \- Description of computers for parallel processing in eTomo

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B /usr/local/ImodCalib/cpu.adoc
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
The cpu.adoc file contains descriptions of the computers you wish to use when
running parallel processes through eTomo with processchunks(1).  
It is used by eTomo to build the parallel
processing table and to run processchunks.  If you are just using a single
computer with multiple processors, there are two simple alternatives to using
the cpu.adoc file: 1) enable parallel processing and enter the number of
processors in the Settings dialog opened from the eTomo Options menu; or 2)
define the environment variable IMOD_PROCESSORS to be the number of processors
(see imodenv(1)).

The cpu.adoc file
must be placed in the IMOD calibration directory.  The location of 
this directory is defined by the environment variable IMOD_CALIB_DIR, which
has a default value of /usr/local/ImodCalib with a default installation of
IMOD.  You will probably need to create this directory.  Then, prepare a
cpu.adoc file and place it there.  There is an example cpu.adoc file in the
autodoc directory of the IMOD distribution; you should be able to use this as
a starting point.

.SS Computer Sections and Attributes

.TP
.B [Computer = \fIcomputer_name\fB]
Each section describes one computer.  \fIComputer_name\fR will be used by eTomo
and IMOD to contact the computer via
ssh.  As an alternative to listing an actual computer name, the name can simply
be "localhost", in which case programs will be run directly rather through
ssh.  A computer should be listed only once; do not have one section with an
actual name and one section with "localhost".

Computer attributes are name/value pairs found under a computer section, they
have the following syntax: 
.br
.B name = \fIvalue\fR
.br
The order of the attributes
is not important.  All attributes are optional; some are entered in order to
change the default value of an attribute, while others are purely descriptive.
For the descriptive
attributes, you can put anything in them that you want.
However, any attribute you do not use will be omitted from the table, so not
using attributes can save screen space in Etomo.  If all of the users are
familiar with the attributes of the computers or you are planning to use all
of the computers every time you run a parallel process, then you do not
need to use anything but the number attribute.  

.TP
.B number = \fInumber_of_CPUs
The number attribute is necessary if you have a computer with multiple
processors.  If you do not enter this attribute, a single processor is assumed.

.TP
.B gpu\fR[\fB.local\fR]\fB = 1
This attribute means that the GPU (graphics processing unit) of a video card installed in
this computer is available for running compatible IMOD processes.  If the \fBlocal\fR
modifier is used, then the GPU is only available to an eTomo that is being run on this
computer.  Only video cards with CUDA can be used in this way.

.TP
.B gpu.device = \fIGPU#\fR[\fB,\fIGPU#\fR...]
Use this attribute instead of \fBgpu = 1\fR when multiple GPUs are available.
GPUs will be added to the processchunks call in the same order as they are
listed in this attribute.

.TP
.B type = \fICPU_type
This attribute goes into the table under the heading \fBCPU Type\fR and can
contain a description of the computer's processor.

.TP
.B exclude-interface = recon\fR|\fBjoin\fR|\fBpp\fR|\fBpeet
Excludes a computer from the Parallel Processing table depending on the
interface in use.  Interfaces:  Tomogram Reconstruction - \fBrecon\fR, Join -
\fBjoin\fR, Parallel Processing - \fBpp\fR, PEET - \fBpeet\fR.  Only one
interface can be excluded per computer.

.TP
.B users = \fIuser_name\fR[\fB,\fIuser_name\fR...]
A list of the users who have login priviledges on the computer.  If a user is
not on this list, the computer will be excluded from the Parallel Processing
table when the user runs Etomo.  This attribute is optional.  If it is omitted,
the computer will not be excluded based on user name.

.TP
.B speed = \fICPU_speed
This attribute goes into the table under the heading \fBSpeed\fR and can
contain the speed of the computer.  If you want to put units for this
attribute in the column header, see the Global Attributes section below.

.TP
.B memory = \fIamount_of_RAM
This attribute goes into the table under the heading \fBRAM\fR and can contain
the amount of memory the computer has.  If you want to put units for this
attribute in the column header, see the Global Attributes section below.

.TP
.B os = \fIoperating_system
This attribute goes into the table under the heading \fBOS\fR and can contain a
description of the operating system the computer is running.

.TP
.B mountname = \fIname_for_mounting_this_computers_directories_remotely
This attribute specifies the name substituted for \fB%mountname\fR
in a mount rule (see below) when running on this current computer as the
.br
.B mountrule.#.local = \fIlocal_directory_path\fR
.br
.B mountrule.#.local = \fIremote_directory_path\fR
.br
See the section below on Mount Rules.  Mount rules can be entered as
computer attributes in order to specify a rule that applies only for a 
specific machine or to override a global mount rule.

.SS Queue Sections and Attributes

.TP
.B [Queue = \fIqueue_name\fB]
Each section describes one queue in a cluster.  \fIQueue_name\fR will be
displayed in the parallel processing table and sent to
processchunks with the -Q option, but it does not need to match the actual
name of a queue.  \fBComputer\fR section attributes are all valid in
the \fBQueue\fR sections.

.TP
.B command = \fIcommand_to_run_queuechunk\fR
Required.  \fBQueuechunk\fR is a script in IMOD that allows eTomo to work
with specific types of cluster software, but can be modified or replaced to
work with any cluster software.  Se the man page for Queuechunk(1) for the 
specifications that such a script must meet.  If the version in IMOD is
modified or replaced, it should be given a different name, and placed
somewhere on the IMOD user's path other than IMOD/bin.  That name would be
used in place of "queuechunk" in the command defined in this section.

A PBS example where there is only one queue:
.br
.B command = \fRqueuechunk -t pbs

A PBS example where there are multiple queues:
.br
.B command = \fRqueuechunk -t pbs -q \fIqueue_name

This command will be passed in quotes to processchunks.  It will also be used
to get the load from the queue.

.SS Global Attributes

Global attributes are name/value pairs found at the top of the file, before
any computer sections.  They
typically have the following syntax: 
.br
.I nameA.nameB = value
.br
The order of the attributes is not important.

.TP
.B Version = 1.2
The Version attribute is usually required.  It refers to the syntax used 
in .adoc files and should be set to 1.2.

.TP
.B units.speed = \fIunits_for_the_speed_attributes
The value appears in sub-heading row in the Etomo parallel processing table
under the heading \fBSpeed\fR.

.TP
.B units.memory = \fIunits_for_the_memory_attributes
The value appears in sub-heading row in the Etomo parallel processing table
under the heading \fBRAM\fR.

.TP
.B units.load = \fIqueue_load_header\fR[\fB,\fIqueue_load_header\fR...]
Shows how many comma-separated values will be returned by \fBqueuechunk\fR when
it returns a queue's load and provides header(s) for them in the Etomo parallel
processing table.  The default is "Load".

.TP
.B max.tilt = \fImaximum_number_of_CPUs_users_should_use_for_tilt
When this attribute is in use, a reminder not to use too many CPUs will appear
next to the tilt parallel processing checkbox.  This number must be a whole
number.  The purpose of this attribute is to discourage users from using too
many CPUs and from experiencing diminishing returns because
of bottlenecks.  We are currently setting \fBmax.tilt\fR to 12, but your mileage
will vary.

.TP
.B max.volcombine = \fImaximum_number_of_CPUs_users_should_use_for_volcombine
Similarly to \fBmax.tilt\fR, this attribute will cause a recommendation on the
maximum number of CPUs to appear next to the volcombine parallel processing
checkbox.  This step is much more susceptible than tomogram generation 
to diminishing returns from I/O bottlenecks.  We are currently setting 
\fBmax.volcombine\fR to 8.

.TP
.B separate-chunks = \fIvalue
This attribute can be used to force programs to write chunks into separate
files that will be reassembled at the end of processing.  Without this
setting, different instances of the Tilt program will all write to one output
file simultaneously, which has given problems in one Mac installation.  Any
value other than 0 activates the feature.

.TP
.B min.nice = \fIminimum_nice_value
The minimum value of the Nice spinner.  The default is 0.

.TP
.B users-column = \fR[\fB0\fR|\fB1\fR]
When this attribute is present and not set to 0, the Users column will be
included in the Parallel Processing table.

.TP
.B mountrule.#.local = \fIlocal_directory_path\fR|\fIremote_directory_path
See the section below on Mount Rules.

.SS Mount Rules for Local to Remote Path Translations
In order to use parallel processing in IMOD, all computers must be able to 
access the directory where the data and command files are located.  However,
it is not necessary that the directory be referred to by the same name on
the different computers.  When these names differ, you must provide eTomo
with information about how to translate the current working directory path on
the local computer into a path that can be used to access the directory on the
remote computers.  This gets tricky because the true path of a directory, as
revealed by a \fBpwd\fR command, may not be the same as the path that the user
enters to get there.  Thus, in setting up path translations, you need to
change to a typical directory and then use \fBpwd\fR to find out what the
official path to the directory is.  This is the path that eTomo will see on
the local machine, so you need to work out how this needs to be translated
so that it can be accessed on the remote machines.

As a simple example, each Linux machine in the BL3DEMC used to have a directory
named \fB/localscratch\fR which was accessed from any machine as
\fB/scratch/\fIcomputer_name\fR (where \fIcomputer_name\fR is the name of a
machine, without any domain).  The required mount rules were entered as:

.B mountrule.1.local = \fB/localscratch
.br
.B mountrule.1.remote = \fB/scratch/%mountname

Where \fB%mountname\fR is entered exactly as written and will be substituted
for the appropriate mount name.  In our example, the mount name is just the
computer name, but a mount name different from the computer name can be 
entered for an individual computer using the \fBmountname\fR attribute.

For a complicated example, we had a Macintosh running OSX 10.4, and it mounted
our Linux home directories (\fB/home\fR, \fB/home1\fR, \fB/home2\fR) under the
same names.  It mounted the Linux machine scratch directories under
\fB/scratch/\fIcomputer_name\fR.  However, when we were running on the Mac and
\fBcd'd\fR to a user's home directory and entered \fBpwd\fR, we got, e.g.,
\fB/private/var/automount/home1/\fIusername\fR.  When we \fBcd'd\fR to a Linux
scratch directory and entered \fBpwd\fR, we got
\fB/private/var/automount/\fIcomputer_name\fR.

.br
The correct translations can be accomplished with:

.ft B
.nf
mountrule.2.local = /private/var/automount/home
mountrule.2.remote = /home
mountrule.3.local = /private/var/automount
mountrule.3.remote = /scratch
.ft R
.fi

The numbers specify the order in which the rules are applied.  Note that it is
important to apply the rule for home first to avoid having
\fB/private/var/automount/home\fR get translated to \fB /scratch/home\fR.  Also
note that this one rule works for \fB/home\fR, \fB/home1\fR, and \fB/home2\fR.
The automount names no longer do this on OSX 10.5 and higher, but the example
is still good for illustrating how to deal with complex situations.

Our Linux machines also used to access the home directories under \fB/Users\fR on
the Mac, by mounting these directories as
\fB/\fIcomputer_name\fB/\fIusername\fR.  So we had another mount rule:

.B mountrule.4.local = /Users
.br
.B mountrule.4.remote = /%mountname

All of the rules in our two examples are compatible, so they could all be
listed as global mountrules in the same cpu.adoc.  If this were not the case,
we could still maintain one file by listing some rules as local rules,
inside the section for a particular computer.

Here are some other facts about mount rules.  The current directory is
checked for substitution against one rule at a time, and if it matches a
rule then the substitution is made and no other rule is checked.  Local rules
for the current host machine, if any, are checked before the global rules.

It is required to have a local rule and a remote rule with the same number
and in the same area (global attributes area or \fBComputer\fR section).  Each
mount rule attribute must have a value.

When \fB%mountname\fR is used, then a \fBComputer\fR section for the current
host computer must exist, or there must be a \fBComputer\fR section called
\fBlocalhost\fR.  In the latter case, a \fBmountname\fR attribute is required for
that section.

.SH EXAMPLES

A \fBcpu.adoc\fR for a standalone two-processor system would be just:
.nf
Version = 1.0
[Computer = localhost]
number = 2
.fi
.P

See \fB$IMOD_DIR/autodoc/cpu.adoc\fR for further examples.

.SH LIMITATIONS

Windows computers may not be placed in the same cpu.adoc parallel processing
table as Linux and Macintosh computers.

All computers in the cpu.adoc will be loaded into a scrollable table in Etomo
and ssh connections will be opened to each one to monitor its load.
A \fBcpu.adoc\fR with many tens of computers may slow down Etomo too much.

.SH SEE ALSO

\fBqueuechunk\fR(1)
