.na
.nh
.TH dm2mrc 1 2.6.3 BL3DEMC
.SH NAME
dm2mrc \- Create an MRC image stack from Digital Micrograph files.
.SH SYNOPSIS
dm2mrc  [options]  DM_files...  MRC_image_file
.SH DESCRIPTION
dm2mrc will convert Digital Micrograph (DM) image files to an MRC stack,
using raw2mrc(1).  The program should be able to convert version DM 2.5 files
produced by DM 2.5 running on a Macintosh, DM 2.5 files exported by DM 3
running on a Windows PC, DM 3 files, and DM 4 files produced by GMS 2.x.
.P
The program will convert signed 16-bit integers, unsigned 16-bit integers
(by subtracting 32767), signed bytes (by adding 127), unsigned bytes, and
32-bit floating point numbers or integers (producing floating point output).
This default behavior can be modified by the options listed below, which is
highly desirable with data from 16-bit cameras that have been stored as
32-bit numbers.
.P
The program will first scan through all of the files to 
determine the version of DM file, the data type, the image dimensions, and
the header offset to the beginning of the data in the file.  If all of these
attributes are the same, it will convert them in one call to raw2mrc(1).
Otherwise, it will convert each one independently into a temporary file, then
make a stack from the temporary files with newstack(1).  DM files that contain
stacks of identically sized images will be handled; all of the images from each 
file will be included in the output file.
.P
The program will use the pixel size in the input files to set the pixel
spacing in the header of the output file, if one can be determined.  If there
is a separate Z pixel size, this will be used to set the Z pixel spacing
also.  It uses the value from the first input file having a pixel size.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -s
Treat unsigned data as signed.  Use this option for unsigned 16-bit data if
the values are all less than 32768, or for unsigned 32-bit data being
converted to 16-bit values with
.B -c.
.TP
.B -r
Reduce (divide) unsigned data by 2 instead of subtracting 32767.  Use this
option for data that are to be written as 16-bit values if the values range
above 32767 and you prefer to lose one bit of precision to having negative 
numbers.
.TP
.B -u
Store unsigned data in a 16-bit unsigned MRC file (mode 6, not a standard 
mode) instead of subtracting 32768.  These files may be less portable but
should be usable within current versions of IMOD.
.TP
.B -c
Convert 32-bit integers to 16-bit (short) integers instead of to floating
point numbers.
If the data are signed integers, you can use this option alone if values are 
between -32768 and 32767; or you can use the option with
.B -r
to divide by 2 if values are between -65536 and 65535.  If the data are
unsigned, then by default 32767 will be subtracted from the input values,
so that values from 0 to 65534 can be stored as -32767 to 32767.  Again,
.B -r
can be used to divide by 2 instead, so that values from 0 to 65534 can be
stored as 0 to 32767.  If values in the input files are all less than 32768, 
then use the
.B -s
option to avoid subtracting 32767.
.TP
.B -i
Invert the order of images in the output stack.  Input files will be processed
in inverted order, and slices inside of stack files will also be read in
inverted order.  This option will preserve handedness if the images being
stacked are serial images as a block face was cut
and are in the same orientation as views looking down on the block.
.SH AUTHOR
David Mastronarde
.SH SEE ALSO
raw2mrc(2), newstack(2)
.SH BUGS
The program has been written to handle common examples generated on
a small subset of Digital Micrograph versions, so it might fail with
files outside the range of this experience.
Email reports of problems to mast@colorado.edu.
