.na
.nh
.TH edgeeraser 1 4.6.34 BL3DEMC
.SH NAME
edgeeraser - erase defects along the edges of images
.SH SYNOPSIS
edgeeraser
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program erases bad portions of an image near its edges.  It is
designed to eliminate the sharp borders created when an image
digitized from film does not fill the entire frame.  The image is
tapered down to the mean intensity gradually to eliminate the strong
artifacts that would otherwise occur in a tomographic reconstruction.
.P
To use the program, first prepare an IMOD model file to indicate
which edges need to be erased.  Each edge should be specified with a
separate contour; do not go around a corner with a single contour to
specify two edges.  Draw the contour just inside the edge of the bad
region on the image.  The program will erase along that entire side
of the image, so you should generally draw a contour along the whole
length of a side.  If you do not, the program will extrapolate from
the endpoints of a contour.
.P
The inputs are:
.P
Input image file
.P
Output image file, or <Return> to place modified sections back into
the input file.  USE REPLACEMENT OPTION WITH CAUTION
.P
Model file
.P
Distance over which the image should be tapered down to the mean
intensity, or / to accept the default.  This taper will occur inside
of the drawn contour, so that the mean intensity is reached at the
position of the contour.
.SH HISTORY
.nf
	  Written by David Mastronarde  12/4/98
.fi
.SH BUGS
Email bug reports to mast@colorado.edu.
