.na
.nh
.TH endmodel 1 4.6.34 BL3DEMC
.SH NAME
endmodel - make a model file with starting & ending points of contours
.SH SYNOPSIS
endmodel
.SH DESCRIPTION
Endmodel will make a new model file containing only specified
starting and ending points of contours in a model.  The contours in the
the original objects may end up in completely different new model object.
.P
Entries to the program:
.P
Name of input model file
.P
Name of output model file
.P
Number of different objects to create in the output
model.  For each such object, next enter the following two lines:
.P
   "Color" of the object in the output model, and number of kinds of
   ends to include in that object.  This "color" is 256 minus the
   desired object number.  (For example, "250,4" to include
   four kinds of ends in object 6)
.P
   A list of pairs of values: each pair consists of an object number
   in the old model, and either a 0 to take the starting point or a 1
   to take the ending point for each contour in that object.  (For
   example, to take starting points of contours in objects 1 and 3,
   and ending points of contours in objects 2 and 4, enter the list
   "1,0,3,0,2,1,4,1" )
.P
Number of points to generate for each new model contour, and the
increment in Z between them.  If you need this model just to look at,
enter "1,0" to get just a single point.  If you intend to run an MTK
analysis of 3-D distances between these ends, you need at least 2
points; in this case enter "2,0.1"
.SH HISTORY
.nf
Written by David Mastronarde, 11/23/92;  modified for IMOD 4/24/97
.fi
.SH BUGS
Email bug reports to mast@colorado.edu.
