.na
.nh
.TH eraser 1 4.6.34 BL3DEMC
.SH NAME
eraser - to erase small flaws in image
.SH SYNOPSIS
eraser
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program replaces deviant pixels with interpolated values from
surrounding pixels.  To use it, one first prepares a point list file
(e.g. with model2point(1)) containing a point for each area that one wishes to
erase.  Best results will be obtained if the point is the most
extreme value in the area.  (For elongated areas, one might want to
to enter more than one point).
.P
The program works by building up a list of points around the
specified point that need to be replaced.  The list starts with just
the specified point.  A rectangular box is defined by a placing a
border around the points on the list; e.g. for a border size of 3,
there will be at least 3 pixels between any point on the list and
the edge of the box.  Then the mean and standard deviation of density
is computed for pixels that are in the box but are not on the list
or adjacent to a point on the list.  Then, all of the adjacent points
are examined, and they are added to the list if they deviate from the
mean by more than the specified criterion number of standard
deviations (and in the same direction from the mean as the original
specified point).  This process is repeated until no further points
get added to the list, or until the box reaches a limiting size.
After the list is stable, the pixels in the box and not on the list
are fit to a polynomial function of x and y, and the pixels on the
list are replaced by values computed from the polynomial.
.P
.nf
The inputs are:
Input image file
Output image file, or <Return> to place modified sections back into
      the input file.  USE REPLACEMENT OPTION WITH CAUTION
Point list file
Criterion # of standard deviations for adding a pixel to the list
      of points needing replacement  (try 2)
Border size around points on list (default 3 pixels)
Maximum # of pixels to include in box (default 400)
Order of polynomial (default=2, terms in x, y, x**2, y**2 and x*y)
.fi
.P
At each position, the program outputs a map of the pixels in the box,
with the initial specified point marked by a 2 and other replaced
points marked by a 1.
.P
This program doesn't always do a good job.  It could be improved, but
it is better to keep dirt off of the images in the first place.
.SH HISTORY
.nf
Written by David Mastronarde, 2/27/89
.fi
.SH BUGS
Email bug reports to mast@colorado.edu.
