.na
.nh
.TH fenestra 1 4.6.34 BL3DEMC
.SH NAME
fenestra - find areas of holes in model objects
.SH SYNOPSIS
fenestra
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program will measure the sizes of holes through model objects
described by a series of contours, such as fenestrations in Golgi
cisternae.  It assumes that the objects have been modeled in Z planes
while the holes appear when looking at the X or Y face of the model.
For each model object, you must first create a separate object with
points specifying the locations of the holes.  In general, each hole
should be marked by two points, on the first and last Z planes
where the opening occurs.  These points should be placed fairly
carefully midway between the two contours and underneath the contour
that closes off the hole on the adjacent Z place.
.P
You may place the locator points in separate contours or in the same
contour, although in the latter case one must be particularly
careful to enter a pair of points for each hole.  A hole occurring on
only one Z plane may be specified by either one point or two, but if
you use one point you MUST place that point in a separate contour.
.P
.P
The program works by finding points on either side of the hole that
are closest to the line connecting the two locator points.  Given
all of these edge points, it then finds the plane that fits these
points best.  The normal to this plane is taken as the best
direction for viewing the hole.  An initial area is computed from
the polygon determined by projecting the points into that plane.
Then, the program reexamines the contours at the edge of the hole
and finds the points that encroach the most upon the hole, when
viewed from the best direction determined from the initial points.
These points are used to compute a "minimized" area.  An equivalent
diameter is reported, based on this minimized area.
.P
The program can read a series of model files and place the output in
a single text file.
.P
Entries to the program:
.P
Name of output file for areas and diameters
.P
0 for short output of minimized area and equivalent diameter, or 1
for long output identifying the locator point contour number and
location, the projection angles, and tyhe initial area
.P
For output of the points from which area was computed, as contours
showing the outline of each hole, enter the number of a new object
for the initial points, and another number for an object for the
refined points.  Enter 0,0 for no output, or 0 and an object # for
just the refined points.  Make sure the same object numbers will
work for all of the models that will be processed.
.P
Model file name, or a blank line if there are no more models to
process.
.P
A list of the numbers of the objects to be analyzed (Ranges
may be used, e.g., 1-3,6,8)
.P
A list of the numbers of the corresponding objects with locator
points (again, ranges may be used)
.P
An identifier or type number for each object being analyzed.
.P
IF you selected output of contours, enter the name of the new model
file.
.P
The program will now loop back and ask for another input model to
analyze.  Enter a blank line when done.
.P
.SH HISTORY
.nf
        Written by David Mastronarde  9/14/97
.fi
.SH BUGS
Email bug reports to mast@colorado.edu.
