.na
.nh
.TH findsection 1 4.6.34 BL3DEMC
.SH NAME
findsection - Locates section boundaries in tomogram slices
.SH SYNOPSIS
findsection
.SH DESCRIPTION
Findsection  analyes groups of slices from a tomogram, detects
the boundaries of the section, and recommends how much to change
tilt angles to make the section flat, how much to shift the tilt
axis in Z to produce centered slices, and how thick to make the
slices.  It can also recommend how much X-axis tilt is needed to
make the section flat in the orthogonal direction as well.
.P
The program detects the section boundary at a certain position in
the tomogram by measuring the standard deviation of image intensity
at each value of Y in the tomogram slice.  It measures S.D. in a
"patch" with a width in the X direction and extent in the Z
direction specified by the user.  To find the bottom edge of the
section, it takes the mean S.D. over several Y values at the bottom
of the slice and over Y values just below the middle of the slice.
It finds the point where S.D. rises above halfway between these mean
values and fits a line to the nearby S.D. values.  The Y values where
this line crosses the halfway point and the mean at the bottom of the
slice are estimates of the position of the middle and the end of the
edge, respectively.  The mid-positions are fairly accurate and are
used to determine the midpoint of the section in Y; the end positions
are less accurate and are used just to obtain a more conservative
measure of section thickness.  The same procedure is used on the top
of the section.
.P
This analysis is performed at a series of patch positions across
the width of the tomogram.  It can be done over a set of files (each
being a portion of the same tomogram), with the same patch positions
being analyzed in each.  After analyzing a set of patches for one
file, the program determines what rotation is required to make the
section be flat.  It reports the upward shift needed to center
the section in Y, and the slice thickness needed to contain either
edge middles or edge ends.  These values are derived and reported
before and after the recommended rotation is applied.  Thickness
values are rounded up to integers suitable for taking 3D FFTs.
After all files are analyzed, the program makes the same analysis and
report based on the data from all of the files.  It then computes an
X-axis tilt and reports thickness and rotation if that tilt is taken
into account as well.
.P
Entries to the program:
.P
Width of patch in X, number of patches to analyze across the width
   of the tomogram
.P
Number of points to average to get mean S.D. at the edge of the
   slice, number to average to get mean S.D. near the middle of the
   slice, and number of points to fit the line to.  Note that the
   within-section average is taken on one side of the middle, not
   across the center of the slice, so the number of points should be
   constrained accordingly.  Defaults are 3, 10, and 4.
.P
Spacing between tomogram samples (the distance in Y in the tilt
   images.)  If a non-zero number is entered, the program will
   compute the tilt around the X-axis that will make the tomogram be
   flat in its Z dimension.
.P
Number of files to analyze
.P
For each file, first enter the name of the file.
.br
Then enter the starting and ending slices to analyze (/ for all in
   the file)
.br
Then enter a list of patches to drop from the analysis for that file,
   or Return to retain all patches.
.P
.SH HISTORY
.nf
Written by David Mastronarde, November 1995
2/18/99: added X axis tilt output
.fi
.SH BUGS
Email bug reports to mast@colorado.edu.
