.na
.nh
.TH findhotpixels 1 4.6.34 BL3DEMC
.SH NAME
findhotpixels - find pixels to exclude from X-ray analysis in SerialEM
.SH SYNOPSIS
findhotpixels  [options]  input_image  output_model
.SH DESCRIPTION
Findhotpixels will analyze a set of CCD camera dark reference images to
identify relatively hot pixels in the CCD chip and will output a list of the
pixels in a format suitable for placing in the property file for SerialEM.
Automatic removal of X-rays from dark references can then be activated in
SerialEM, and it will then be able to avoid identifying a hot pixel as an
X-ray.  It is recommended that three long-exposure (e.g., 3 sec) dark
reference images be used for this analysis.
.P
The program works by finding pixels that deviation from the image mean by a
specified threshold.  The lower the threshold, the more pixels it will find.
You may need to run the program several times to find a threshold that gives
a reasonable number of hot pixels (under 100).  A threshold on the order of
0.2% of the dynamic range of the camera should be appropriate.
.P
Hot columns are excluded from the analysis.  With 4-port readout cameras
from Gatan, it is important to exclude a fairly large number of bright
columns near the edges; otherwise you will need to set the threshold higher
than the optimal level for finding the hot pixels in the rest of the
camera.  The program could be smarter about this and use a deviation from a
local mean, but there is no point in doing so under SerialEM uses a local
criterion as well.
.P
The program outputs a list of the hot pixels coordinates and their values
above the image mean.  At the end is a set of HotPixels and HotColumns
entries suitable for pasting into the SerialEM properties file.
.SH OPTIONS
The program can be run either interactively or with command line arguments
processed by the PIP interface (see the man page for pip(1)).  With command
line arguments, the options are:
.TP
.B -input \fROR\fP -InputFile 	 \fIFile name\fR
Name of input image file with dark reference images.  If this option is
not entered, the first non-option argument is used
.TP
.B -output \fROR\fP -OutputFile 	 \fIFile name\fR
Name of output model file with a point at every hot pixel.  If this option
is not entered, the second non-option argument is used.
.TP
.B -columns \fROR\fP -HotColumns 	 \fIList of integer ranges\fR
List of hot columns to exclude (numbered from 0).  Ranges may be entered.
.TP
.B -threshold \fROR\fP -ThresholdDifference 	 \fIFloating point\fR
Threshold difference from mean value for seeking hot pixels
.TP
.B -help \fROR\fP -usage
Print help output
.TP
.B -StandardInput
Read parameter entries from standard input.
.P
.SH INTERACTIVE INPUTS
If no command line arguments are entered, input is requested interactively
as follows:
.P
Name of input image file with dark reference images
.P
Name of output model file with a point at every hot pixel
.P
List of hot columns to exclude (numbered from 0)
.P
Threshold difference from mean value for seeking hot pixels
.P
.SH HISTORY
Written by David Mastronarde in 2003.
Added to IMOD, 10/17/06.
.SH BUGS
Email bug reports to mast@colorado.edu.
