.na
.nh
.TH genhstplt 1 4.6.34 BL3DEMC
.SH NAME
genhstplt - to plot histograms and 2-D plots on screen or paper
.SH SYNOPSIS
genhstplt
.SH DESCRIPTION
Genhstplt is a general-purpose interface to the BSHST and BSPLT histogram
and 2-dimensional data plotting routines.  See the documentation of those
routines (bshst(1) and bsplt(1)) for instructions on operating them.
.P
The data file may have 1 or more columns of data values for each individual.
Before the first column of data, one may place a "type" value for each
individual.  One can then form "groups" of values by combining individuals
of one or more types.  If there are no type values, then there is only one
group, consisting of all individuals in the file.  The actual type values
are completely arbitrary and need not be 1, 2, 3, etc.  Once groups are
formed, they are referred to in order as 1, 2, etc.
.P
The file may have lines at the beginning which can be skipped by the
program.  The number of columns of data values can be detected by the
program as long as all the columns for an individual are on the same line in
the file.  Otherwise, the number of columns (exclusive of the optional type
value) may be put in the file, in the line just before the data begin, or it
may be entered into the program interactively.  Non-numeric text can be
present after the last column of data.
.P
Sometimes it is desirable to have one graph show two or more columns in Y
plotted versus the same column in X.  If the data does not already have type
values, they may be rearranged so that each column becomes a separate type.
One column is chosen as the X column and is copied into column 1 of the
rearranged data, and all columns are copied sequentially into column 2 of
the rearranged data and given type numbers equal to their original column
numbers.  This rearrangement can be done when first reading in the data, or
later by using option 15.  The same option can be used to restore the data
to the original columnar organization.
.P
Symbol types are selected by numbers from 1 to 19 and can be open and filled
square (1 & 2), open and filled diamond (3 & 4), open and filled triangle (5
& 6), X and + (7 & 8), open and filled circle (9 & 10), open and filled
inverted triangle (11 & 12), U (13), S (14), circle with vertical line (15),
thick open circle (16), circle with central dot (17), small dot (18), and
horizontal line (19).  As of IMOD 4.6.8, the same symbols appear on the
screen as in the Postscript plots, except that 16 and 17 give open and
filled circles.  0 will give no symbol; a negative value will produce the
characters corresponding to the point number for each data value instead of
a symbol; except that -2 will produce completely filled areas in
histograms.
.P
This is an interactive program that allows entries of one option after
another for plotting data in different ways.  In many cases, you may find it
much more convenient to use Onegenplot(1), which displays a single X/Y plot
of one or more data types or columns specified with command line arguments,
then exits when the window is closed.  Note also that the graph window can
be saved as a PNG file or printed from a popup menu brought up by
right-clicking in the window.
.P
Entries to Genhstplt are:
.P
0 for plots in the graphics window, 1 for plots only on the terminal,
   or -1 for plots always in the graphics window (default -1).  If you
   enter -1, this question will not be asked again and BSPLT will not
   ask about doing terminal plots either.  Note that if you need to use
   terminal plots, you will need to specify that option each time that
   you do a plot. 
.P
0 if there are just data values, or 1 if there are also types, or -1 to
   have columns converted into types (default 0)
.P
Number of columns of data values (excluding the optional types).
   Enter -1 to have the number of columns detected automatically (the
   default), 0 if the number of columns is to be read just before the
   data, or enter the number of columns.
.P
Number of lines to skip at start of file.  Do not count the line
   telling the number of columns, if there is one and you just entered
   0 to the last question.
.P
Data file name
.P
IF you entered -1 to have columns converted into types, and there is more
than one column, next enter the column to be placed into the first column in
the rearranged data.
.P
IF there are types, next enter:
.P
   Number of groups.  Enter the negative of the number if there is
      only one type per group, as a shortcut.
.P
   IF you entered a positive number, then enter for each group:
.P
      Number of types in group, symbol number
      The type values for the types in the group
.P
   BUT IF you entered a negative number, then enter for each group
      the type value and the symbol number
.P
IF there are no type values, just enter the symbol number to be used.
.P
Next enter the column number of the data to be examined next.
.P
Next specify how the data are scaled:
   To leave the data alone, enter 0,0
   To take the logarithm after adding some base amount to the data,
      enter 1 and the base amount
   If the data are already logarithms, enter -1,0
.P
The program now enters BSHST, which you can skip through if desired.
.P
You are now at an option point, which you may return to repeatedly
while running the program.  Your choices are:
.P
.nf
1 to examine a new data column, first saving the current column as
   the "previous" column
2 or 17 to enter BSPLT and plot the column just examined as a set of Y
   values versus the previous column, as a set of X values.  With 17,
   successive points in a group will be connected by lines.
3 to plot the column just examined versus the previous column,
   first grouping points within each group on the basis of their
   X values and forming means and standard deviations within
   groups (see below)
4 to loop back and define new groups and/or symbols
5 to loop back to the start of the program and open a new file
6 to plot the current Postscript file on workstation screen
7 or 209 to plot the current Postscript file on printer
8 or -123 to exit the program
9 to plot the column just examined versus the previous column as
   series of Tukey box plots, one Tukey box per group.
10 to plot values with error bars based on S.D. values in another
   column of the data file.
11 to group points based upon their X values in the previous
  column (as in option 3) and then divide the average of the
  current column by the average of some other column
12 to select subsets of the data based on the values in some
   other column than the ones being plotted
13 to divide the current data column by another column
14 to examine a new data column while retaining the existing X values,
   i.e., without copying the current column into the "previous" column
15 to reorganization data without types to have one type per column, or
   to restore data from this reorganization
16 to create an ordinal column, with values from 1 to the number of
   points in a group for each group
18 to form a linear combination of two or more columns
.fi
.P
If you select option 3, you first choose whether to plot error bars
as a multiple of standard deviation or standard error of the mean,
or as confidence limits.  Enter a positive number to get bars equal
to that number of S.D.'s, or a negative value to get bars equal to
that number of S.E.M.'s, or a positive number greater than 30 to get
confidence limits at that percentage level (e.g., 90 for 90%
confidence limits).  Then, for each group of types, you will be told
how many data points there are.  Enter the number of groupings that
you want to combine these points into, then enter the number of
points to include in each of the groupings, or just a / to divide
the points equally among the groupings.  If you enter individual
numbers for each grouping, they should add up to the total number of
points in that group of types.
.P
If you select option 9, then when the data are plotted on the
printer, they will appear as Tukey box plots for each group.
Each such box shows the median and 25 and 50 percentile values of the
set of Y values for the group; lines and ticks show the 10 and 90
percentile points, and symbols are plotted for any data values
outside the 10 and 90 percentile levels.  The box is plotted at the
mean X coordinate of the points in the group.
.P
If you select option 10, you first choose whether to plot error bars
as a multiple of standard deviation or standard error of the mean,
or as confidence limits.  Enter a positive number to get bars equal
to that number of S.D.'s, or a negative value to get bars equal to
that number of S.E.M.'s, or a positive number greater than 30 to get
confidence limits at that percentage level (e.g., 90 for 90%
confidence limits).  If you select S.D.'s, next enter the column
number in the data file that contains the S.D.'s.  Otherwise, enter
two column numbers: the one with the S.D.'s and one with N's.  Both
of these parameters are needed to plot S.E.M.'s or confidence limits.
.P
If you select option 11, you first enter a value for error bars as
in option 3.  Then enter the column to divide the current column by.
Then specify the groupings of points for each group of data.  The
default groupings will have nearly equal SUMS for the denominators.
The program will compute and print out for each set of points the
following values: mean of previous column (X), mean of current
column, SD of current column, mean of denominator column, mean of
current divided by mean of denominator column (Y), SD of current
divided by mean of denominator (SD associated with Y), and number
of points in the set.  Error bars based on the resulting SD values
may or may not be meaningful depending on the nature of the data.
.P
If you select option 12, first enter the number of the column that
will be used to test whether to include data.  Then enter a lower
and upper limit to a range of values, plus either 0 to include only
values in that range, or 1 to exclude values in that range.  Use this
option repeatedly to enter multiple selection criteria.  Data points
will have to meet all of the criteria to be included in the plots.
After entering one or more selection criteria, you must select data
by specifying columns with option 1.  To cancel all of the criteria,
specify option 12 and enter 0 for the column.
.P
If you select option 13, first enter the number of the column to divide by,
then enter lower and upper limits for the quotient, or 0,0 not to limit the
quotient.  The current data column is not replaced, so you can use this
option repeatedly to divide the current data column by different other
columns.
.P
Option 16 is useful for graphing a sequence of values when the data file
does not contain a column suitable for the X axis.  This option will create
numbers in the current column from 1 up to the number of items in each
group .  You will then have to use option 1 to select a new column for the Y
axis, and the ordinal values will be moved into the "previous" column to
serve as the X axis.
.P
If you select option 18, enter a series of pairs of numbers, first a
coefficient then a column number, all on one line.  For example,
"0.5,1,0.25,2,0.25,4" will form a weighted average of columns 1, 2, and 4
with wieths 0.5, 0.25, and 0.25.  Coefficients need to add to one or be
positive.   After entering this line, enter 0 to have to current Y axis data
be moved to the X axis as usual, or 1 to replace it and retain the existing
X axis data.
.P
There are several additional options to control plotting, most of them used
by Onegenplot(1); options -4 and -5 are also generally useful if making
postscript plots:
.P
.nf
-2 Enter X axis label and symbol key strings to appear to right of graph.
    Follow with the X axis label or blank for none, then with the number
    of key strings (between 0 and 8), then with the key strings on
    separate lines.
-3 Invert display contrast to be white lines on black background, or back
    to black on white.
-4 Enter a set of colors for selected groups, which will be applied for
    symbols, lines in both screen plots and postscript plots.  First
    enter the number of colors to be entered; 0 eliminates all color
    drawing.  Then enter 4 values that number of times: a group number
    (numbered from 1), and red, green, and blue components ranging from 0
    to 255.  A color will be ignored if the graph has fewer groups than
    the color's group number.
-5 Enter the index of a text string to apply a color to for each color
    entered with -4; the colors will be used for the text strings that
    can be added to a postscript plot.
-6 Enter a new value for the gap in connecting lines round symbols in
    postscript plots, or 0 for no gaps.  The value is multiplied by the
    symbol size to obtain the actual gap; the default is 1.1.
-8 Wait until graph window is closed then exit
.fi
.SH HISTORY
.nf
Written by David Mastronarde, has wandered from one kind of computer and
graphics to another over the years.
.fi
.SH BUGS
Email bug reports to mast@colorado.edu.
