.nh
.na
.TH imodv 1 2.31 BL3DFS
.SH NAME
imodv \- View an imod model.
.SH SYNOPSIS
imodv [options] <model files...>
.SH DESCRIPTION
imodv is used to view models drawn with imod.  The main imodv window is
similar to the "Model View" window available in the program imod.  When
run from the command line, imodv can read and save models through the File 
menu.  Multiple models can be loaded and manipulated independently, either by 
putting their names on the command line or by loading them one after another
through the File menu.
The command line options are given below.
.SS Options
imodv uses all the standard Xt Toolkit options in addition to
the options described below.
.TP
.B -noborder
Open window with no border.
The menus can be accessed via a pop up menu using the right mouse button.
.TP
.B -f -fullscreen
Open model view window to maximum size supported by graphics.
No border will be created on the window.  
The menus can be accessed via a pop up menu using the right mouse button.
This mode is recommended if
one plans to use crystal eyes stereo hardware.
.TP
.B -rgb <color>  -renderbackground <color>
Select the color that imodv uses as the rendering background.
The color is a standard Xt Toolkit color name.
.TP
.B -cindex
Use color index mode. Useful on systems with only 8-bit graphics.
.P
.SS Hot key shortcuts for imodv.
.TP
.B - =
Zoom out/in with small steps.
.TP
.B _ +
Zoom out/in with large steps.
.TP
.B 1 2
Step back/forward in time.
.TP
.B 9 0 
Step to previous/next model.
.TP
.B 8
Toggle displaying all models or one model.
.TP
.B Arrow Keys, Page Up, Page Down
Translate model in X, Y, and Z.
.TP
.B Numeric Keypad
Model rotation controls:
   The 4 and 6 keys rotate about the Y Axis. 
   The 8 and 2 keys rotate about the X Axis.
   The 9 and 3 keys rotate about the Z Axis.  
   The 5 Key toggles between movie and incremental motion.
.TP
.B , .
Decrease or increase the rotation increment and movie speed.

.TP
.B Escape, q
Quit imodv or close model view window.
.TP
.B B
Open dialog to set background color.
.TP
.B C
Open the Control editing dialog.
.TP
.B i
Open the Image overlay control dialog.
.TP
.B L
Open Object List dialog.
.TP
.B m
Open Movie control dialog.
.TP
.B M
Open Model editing dialog.
.TP
.B O
Open the Object editing dialog.
.TP
.B v
Open the View editing dialog.
.TP
.B S
Snapshot image
.TP
.B s
Toggle Stereo On/Off.
.TP
.B [ ]
Adjust parallax for stereo viewing.
.TP
.B l
Invert the parallax angle.
.TP
.B b
Toggle single/double buffering.
.TP
.B r
Toggle low resolution drawing of mesh and spheres.
.TP
.B g G
Increase or decrease the quality (and time) of sphere drawing.
.TP
.B c
Print clip plane information to standard output.
.TP
.B o
Print model transformations to standard output.

.P
Use the online help for more information on using imodv.
.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Jim Kremer
David Mastronarde
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
imod(1), imodinfo(1)
.SH BUGS
Please email all bug reports to mast@colorado.edu.
