.na
.nh
.TH imod2obj 1 2.00 BL3DEMC
.SH NAME
imod2obj \- Make a OBJ model from an IMOD model file.
.SH SYNOPSIS
imod2obj  [options]  IMOD_model  obj_file  [mtl_file]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Convert an IMOD model file to the Wavefront .obj text file format which
a very simple but common format for interchange of 3D meshes between
various 3D graphics programs.  OBJ files are generally much more limited
than VRML 2.0 and other 3D file formats as there is no object hierarchy and they
lack support for primitives like spheres. As a result, all spheres are
converted  to meshes and all meshes are listed in a flat array of "groups".
OBJ files do not store material properties, but they do allow materials to
be referenced in a separate "Material Template Library" (MTL) file which is
generated if you include a second output file (mtl_file.mtl) on the end of
the command. While OBJ files are widely used, not all computer programs will
know how to interpret MTL file and thus it's likely your color and material
information will be lost. 
.P
The model produced will generally have similar attributes to those set in
3dmod's ModelView before the conversion. Specifically, objects that are turned
off will not be included in the OBJ file. OBJ files can and do not allow
contours to be rendered as contours, thus only objects which have been meshed
will appear in the OBJ file.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 
.B -l
Use low-resolution meshes, if any are available.  The default is to use the
highest resolution meshes contained in the model.  Low resolution meshes can
be produced with the 
.B -l
option to imodmesh(1).
.TP 
.B -a
Output all objects (by default those switched off are omitted).
.TP 
.B -r
Rotates the entire model such that the Z axis becomes up in Y.
This feature is useful when exporting to animation programs
.TP 
.B -n
Output normals (off by default as most 3d programs which import OBJ can
generate their own normals if missing).
.TP
.B -s \fI#\fR
Specifies number of segments to render per sphere - the more segments the
nicer the sphere, but the more faces and thus longer to load. Think of this
number as the number of lines of longitude (the ones that go up and down).
The default value is 8 and the number of (horizontal) lines of latitude is
made half this value.
.TP
.B -i
Print spheres as icosahedrons (a surface with 20 equilateral triangles)
instead of "standard spheres".
.SH AUTHORS
Andrew Noske
.SH SEE ALSO
3dmodv(1), imodmesh(1), imod2vrml(1), imod2vrml2(1)
.SH BUGS
Email bug reports to mast@colorado.edu, and CC to andrew_noske<AT>yahoo<DOT>com.
