.na
.nh
.TH imodkillgroup 1 4.6.1 BL3DEMC
.SH NAME
imodkillgroup -\ Kill process group or process tree given one process ID
.SH SYNOPSIS
imodkillgroup  [options]  pid  [pid...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Imodkillgroup is a Python script to kill one or more sets of related
processes.  It works in two different ways. 1) For a given process ID (PID), it
can find the ID of the process group that it belongs to and issue a command to
kill the whole process group.  2) Given the PID of a parent of a set of
processes, it can find the tree of child processes and kill each member of the
tree.  The program operates differently depending on the operating system and
type of Python being run:
.P
.B Linux or Mac OS X: 
Group-killing is done by default, and tree-killing is done if the 
.B -t
option is given.  With tree-killing, the program stops all processes at one level
before issuing a ps command to find children of those processes.  Tree-killing
is needed when killing processes run by Processchunks(1) on the local host,
because they have the same group ID as Processchunks itself.
.P
.B Cygwin Python: 
Group-killing is done by default, and tree-killing is done if the 
.B -t
option is given.  With tree-killing, the program does not stop any processes before
killing them because
current Cygwin has trouble killing processes after stopping them.  It is thus
vulnerable to a process starting a new child after the list has been
constructed and before it has been killed.  Do not use this option unless it
is essential for killing just some members of a process group.  In any case,
this option is not needed when killing from Processchunks(1).  Killing can be
troublesome in Cygwin if the computer is heavily loaded.  By default, the
program will issue a second kill command for a particular group if there is
any kind of error message returned from the first kill.  If the second kill
results in a "No such process" error or no error, then no error is reported
and the program exists with a 0 status.
.P
The option
.B -s
can also be used in Cygwin to get a process status listing with ps and find
all the members of the groups before killing.  The program will then run a new
ps after issuing the kill commands and, if there are any group members still
running, it will issue new kill commands as needed.  This process is repeated
up to 5 times.  However, if the system is heavily loaded, the initial ps may
fail, and the program falls back to issuing a second kill for all groups,
treating errors similarly to the default behavior.
.P
In summary, just use the default method with Cygwin Python.
.P
.B Windows Python:
The psutil module must be installed to use this program with Windows
Python. Only process trees can be killed, and the
.B -t
option is not needed.  The program stops all processes at one level before
finding their children.  This seems to work fine, unlike in Cygwin.  However,
this program cannot be run with Windows Python to kill a process group where
Cygwin Python was used to run jobs.
.P
The option
.B -v
can be used to get verbose output on the progress of the program.
.SH AUTHOR
David Mastronarde,  mast@colorado.edu
.SH SEE ALSO
processchunks(1)
.SH BUGS
The program is much more complicated than it should be thanks to the problems
in Cygwin.
