.na
.nh
.TH imodsendevent 1 2.7.2 BL3DEMC
.SH NAME
imodsendevent \- Sends a clipboard message with a command to 3dmod
.SH SYNOPSIS
imodsendevent  [options]  Window_ID  action  [argument]  [action...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program will send a command to 3dmod(1) to perform one or more actions.
The first command-line
argument is a window ID, which can be obtained by starting
3dmod with the 
.B -W
option.  After this ID, each action is entered in sequence, where an action is
specified by a numeric code followed by whatever arguments are associated
with that action, such as the name of a model file when opening a 
model.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -t \fItime\fR
Timeout, or length of time that the program will wait for a reply from 3dmod,
in seconds.  The default is 5.
.TP
.B -D
Debug mode.  The program will log what it sends by placing on the clipboard
and all changes that it detects on the clipboard.
.SH COMMANDS TO 3DMOD
Currently, 3dmod will accept the following commands:
   1  Open model file (follow with file name); this raises all windows
   2  Save model file
   3  Open model view window if not open; this raises all windows
   4  Quit 3dmod
   5  Raise windows (bring all windows to the front)
   6  Switch to model or movie mode.  Follow with 0 for movie mode, a 
         positive number for model mode, or a negative number to start
         a movie (the sum of -1, -2, -4, and -8 for movieing along X, 
         Y, Z, and time axes)
   7  Open model file but keep current black/white levels (follow with
         file); this raises all windows
   8  Open Bead Fixer window or raise it if already open
   9  Open a Zap window if none are open, this raises all windows
  10  Report the image coordinates of the rubberband in the most 
         recently active Zap window with a rubberband
         (lower left X and Y and upper right X and Y)
  11  Set object properties unconditionally  OR
  12  Set object properties only if specified object has no contours
        For 11 or 12, follow the action with 5 numbers;
             use -1 to leave a property unchanged:
          Object number (numbered from 1), or <= 0 for current object
          0 for closed contours, 1 for open contours, 2 for scattered 
              points
          0 for no symbols, 1 for circles, 2 for squares, 3 for 
              triangles; add 8 for filled symbols
          Symbol size (>= 1)
          3D point radius
  13  Report the three angles of the most recently active slicer window
  14  Send a message to a plugin or compiled-in special module.  
        Follow with the name of the plugin as it appears in the 
        Special menu, including spaces if any, then with the message 
        for the plugin.
  15  Set more object properties unconditionally  OR
  16  Set object properties only if specified object has no contours
        For 15 or 16, follow the action with 4 numbers;
             use -1 to leave a property unchanged:
          Object number (numbered from 1), or <= 0 for current object
          Limit on number of points per contour, or 0 for no limit
          1 to start new contours automatically at new Z, 0 not to
          1 to draw spheres on central section only, 0 not to
  17  Set ghost mode flags and distance.  Follow with 3 numbers:
        New mode bits: the sum of 1 for display on next section, 2 for
          display on previous section, 4 for surface ghost, 8 for all
          objects, 16 for lighter colors
        Mask bits: the sum of the same values for the bits to change;
          bits that are off here will not be changed in the mode
        Number of sections to display ghosts for, or 0 for near mode
  18  Set the HQ (high-res) state of the top Zap window, or of the next
        Zap window opened if there is none.  Follow with 0 to turn HQ
        off or 1 to turn it on
  19  Open a set of dialog windows.  Follow with one or more key
        letters just as for the -E options to 3dmod and 3dmodv.

Bead Fixer accepts the following commands:
   1  Open a Tiltalign log file if one is not open yet, or reread 
        current log if one is open.  Follow with log file name.
   2  Reread the current log file if one has been opened.
   3  Set mode for automatic new contour when seeding.  Follow with 1
        to turn on, 0 to turn off
   4  Set Autocentering.  Follow with 1 to turn on, 0 to turn off.
   5  Set diameter.  Follow with integer diameter in pixels.  If images
        were loaded into 3dmod binned, Bead Fixer will divide by the
        binning.
   6  Set operation mode.  Follow with 0 for seed, 1 for gap, 2 for 
        residuals, or 3 for contours.
   7  Set skip list.  Follow with the skip list with no embedded
        spaces.
   8  Set Delete on All Sections.  Follow with 1 to turn on, 0 to turn 
        off.
   9  Clear the skip list.
.P
If 3dmod is run in standalone model-view mode (run as 3dmodv or 3dmod -view)
it will accept the following commands:
   3  Raise windows
   4  Quit 3dmodv
           
.SH AUTHOR
David Mastronarde,  mast@colorado.edu
.SH SEE ALSO
3dmod(1)
.SH BUGS
Sending events between applications with the clipboard is finicky and brittle.
Instead of using imodsendevent, send messages through standard input if 
possible, by starting 3dmod with the -L option.
