.na
.nh
.TH imodsortsurf 1 3.6.6 BL3DEMC
.SH NAME
imodsortsurf \- Sort contours into surfaces or surfaces into objects
.SH SYNOPSIS
imodsortsurf  [options]  input_model  output_model
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program can do two different operations related to surfaces. 1) It can
use the mesh produced by imodmesh to analyze the connections between contours, 
and assign each set of connected contours a separate surface number.  
2) It can place each surface into a separate object.  The latter operation can
be done either on existing surfaces or on the surfaces produced by analyzing
the mesh.
.SS OPTIONS
.TP
.B -o \fIlist\fR
Restrict the sorting to objects in the given list of object numbers, which
can consist of a comma-separated set of ranges.  The default is to do all
objects.
.TP
.B -s
Split surfaces into new objects.
.TP
.B -e
Use existing surfaces when splitting them into new objects.  The default is
to analyze the surfaces from the mesh instead.  With this option, no mesh is
required.
.TP
.B -c
Make new objects the same color as the object from which they are derived.
Most other display properties are transferred from the existing object to the 
new object.
.TP
.B -k
Keep the surface numbers when moving contours into new objects.  The default
is to set surface numbers to zero.

.SH AUTHOR
David Mastronarde,  mast@colorado.edu
.SH SEE ALSO
imodmesh(1), 3dmod(1)
.SH BUGS
When surfaces are split into new objects, contour and surface labels will be
lost.  Also, stored view information will not be copied to the new objects.
