.na
.nh
.TH imodmesh 1 2.30 BL3DEMC
.SH NAME
imodmesh \- create a triangle mesh from IMOD contour data.
.SH SYNOPSIS
imodmesh  [options]  model_files...
.SH DESCRIPTION
imodmesh is used to create mesh data in an IMOD model file
from closed or open contours.  Each contour is connected to
contours directly above and below by an algorithm that
minimizes the total area of the triangles used to connect
the contours.  Branches
in a volume are handled by combining contours in the same plane with 
additional points.  Contours contained totally within other contours
are considered to represent inside surfaces and will be connected to the outer
surface where appropriate.

.SS Open and Closed Contours
Most modeling of structures in a plane is done with closed-contour objects,
where the brightly lit surface is on the outside of the contours.  An 
open-contour object can be used instead to represent an extended sheet
or a structure that is cut open on one side.  In this case, there is no
obvious way to define the inside and outside of the contours, and the program
will assign the outside surface based on the direction that contours are
drawn.  Specifically, the outside of a surface formed by a connected set of
contours is determined by 
direction of the contour at the lowest Z in that set; higher contours are
automatically inverted if necessary to maintain a consistent outside face.
If you are facing the surface from the side that you want to be brightly lit,
the lowest contour should
progress (point number should increase) from left to right.  This rule will
cover most situations, but if you are skipping sections in an irregular
fashion that requires
multiple passes to form all connections, then you need to use a consistent
direction for the lowest contour in each set of contours that are connected on
the first pass.  If a 
contour is going the wrong way, you can correct it
in 3dmod with Edit-Contour-Invert.  If the entire surface is facing the wrong
way, you can invert the polarity of the surface at the level of the whole
object; use Edit-Object-Type to define the "Front Surface" as being
"Inside" rather than "Outside".  You can also turn on "Light both sides" in
the Model View Object Edit dialog to avoid lighting direction issues.

When meshing open contour objects, imodmesh will attempt to connect all 
contours between sections, regardless of proximity,
because it cannot use
overlapping areas to assess whether contours should be joined.  It will pair
up the closest contours first, which should lead to correct results in most
cases.  If incorrect connections occur, contours can be assigned to different
surfaces in 3dmod, and the
.B -S
option can be used to mesh only contours within each surface.

If only some of the contours in an object need to be open, such as if the
object is only partially cut open, then individual contours in a
closed-contour object can be defined as open with the Edit-Contour-Type window
in 3dmod.  Imodmesh will properly join these open contours to each other and to
the closed contours in the same object.  The inside of one of these open
contours is defined in the same way as if the contour were closed, and overlap
of enclosed area is used to assess whether such contours should be connected,
so using open contours in a closed-contour object
may give superior results to using open-contour objects.  Two cautions should
be noted when using open contours in closed-contour objects.  
First, when there is a
branch involving an open contour, the open contour will be joined with one or
more closed contours on the same section to form a merged open contour that
preserves the open ends; but if such branching requires two open contours on
the same section to be joined, the surface will not be meshed correctly.
The way around this is to use gaps insteads of open contours (see "Gaps and
Phantom Extensions" below).
Second, if the
line connecting the start and end of an open contour would intersect the rest
of the contour, difficulties will arise if that contour has to be joined with
another on the same section.  The solution to this problem is to use invisible
extensions to make the contour encompass the whole area with contours in the
object (see below).

.SS Caps
A cap is used to close off a surface at a place where a contour is not
connected to another contour on the adjacent section.  Imodmesh will create
such caps when you use the 
.B -c
or
.B -C
option.  If the unconnected contour is relatively round, imodmesh
inserts a single point above or below the contour, and connects that point to
all of the points in the contour.  If the contour is more than twice as long
as it is wide, the program will insert two or more points along the long axis
of the contour and connect them
appropriately.  There are several situations in which you may want to create
your own caps by hand, such as if only some of the unconnected contours on a
section should be capped, or if the cap created by imodmesh is inadequate.
To create a simple
cap by hand, just create a contour with one or two points either directly above
or directly below the one you want capped.  To create a complex cap, for
example to cap off a U-shaped contour, create a contour on the adjacent
section with as many points as needed to describe the cap, then use
Edit-Contour-Loopback to make the contour be a complex cap that encloses no
area.

.SS Inside Contours
A contour that is completely contained inside another contour of the same
object is assumed to describe a surface that faces in the opposite direction.
Typically, this means that an inner contour is assumed to face
inward rather than outward.
In fact, contours may be nested to any level, with the outermost contour
facing outward, the next one in facing inward, the next one in facing outward,
etc.  Connections will be made appropriately, i.e., only between contours that
are facing the same direction.  In addition, three kinds of transitions can be
handled.  First, if there is a transition from an annulus (one contour inside
another) to a single, simple contour that encloses all of the area covered by
the inside contour on the adjacent section, then the inside surface is assumed
to end and will be capped, if caps are being made.  Second, if there is a
transition from an annulus to a single contour that is shaped like a
horseshoe, and does not enclose the area over the inside contour, then the
horseshoe-shaped contour will be divided into an inside and an outside contour
for the purpose of connecting to the two contours on the adjacent section.
This transition is tricky and may not be handled correctly, especially if more
than one inside contour is involved in the transition, or if two such
transitions occur in close proximity.
If problems arise, try to avoid having more than one transition occur across a
given pair of sections, and make the points at the tip of the horseshoe (where
the contour will be divided into two) be close together.  Finally, a branch 
may emerge from the inside of an inside contour just as it may from a normal,
outside contour.

.SS Fine-grained Display Information
Imodmesh will encode some fine-grained display information into the mesh,
specifically, color, transparency, 3D width changes, and stored values.
In addition, 3D width, point size, or symbol size can be used to set the
diameter of a tubular mesh around open contours.
Contour-specific and
point-specific properties will always be encoded into the mesh.  This means
that you cannot see changes in these properties without remeshing the model.
The treatment of surface-specific properties depends on whether the 
.B -S
option is entered to connect contours only within surfaces.  If this option
is not given, then surface-specific properties are encoded in the mesh as
well, and changes in these properties will not be seen unless the model is
remeshed.  If the option is given, then the surface-specific properties are
not included in the mesh but are applied during display and can be changed
dynamically.

Connection numbers can be assigned to either points or contours and Imodmesh
will use these numbers when making the mesh.  Point connection numbers can be
used to force the mesh to join particular pairs of points between two
contours.  See the Fine Grain dialog help for more details.
To force a connection between two contours that do not overlap, give them both
the same connection number.  To prevent a connection between contours that do
overlap, give them different connection numbers.  If only one of a pair of
contours has a connection number it will be ignored when deciding whether to
join them.

.SS Gaps and Phantom Extensions
A gap in a contour can also be defined to occur after an individual point,
either with the Fine Grain dialog or with a hot key in 3dmod.
A gap at the last point in a closed contour can be used interchangeably with
defining the contour as open in most situations.  One place where the program
makes a distinction is when there are other points with gaps adjacent to the
ends of an open contour.  You can add such points in order to make an
invisible extension of the contour to enclose other parts of the object that
need to be meshed with the open component.  Such added points will be referred
to as phantom extensions.  The typical case is when you are
modeling a sheet (such as a fraction of a cell membrane) to which other
components such as vesicles attach.  The most reliable way to get this case to
mesh properly is to add two or three points to a contour so that it encloses
the entire image on the side of the sheet containing the rest of the
components in that object, then define gaps to make the added segments
invisible.  

In order for the program to recognize this situation, the contour
must be defined as open, and you must have at least two phantom segments
adjacent to the opening.  The segments can all be at the start, all at the
end, or at both the start and the end.  

You may need to add phantom extensions to only one or a few contours.  If any
contours do have phantom extensions, then the extensions will be added to all
open contours in the object that do NOT have any gaps adjacent to the opening,
provided that the opening is sufficiently large relative to the length of the
contour.  For such a contour, the program will find the nearest contour in Z
that does have extensions and simply copy the extensions from that contour.
Thus, you may have to draw new extensions at places where the endpoints very
differently.  The automatic attachment of extensions could fail.  If the
program fails to attach an extension to a contour (because it is very long
and convoluted relative to the distance between its ends), then you need to
add extensions to the contour.  If the extensions are added by mistake to an
open contour that is not part of the sheet, then change the contour to closed
and define a gap at its last point.

The meshing code will try to match up corresponding gaps between sections and
connect their endpoints.  Adjacent gaps are combined into one for the purpose
of connecting endpoints.  Here also open contours are treated specially.
Connections are created in three stages:
.br
1) If both contours are open and there is at least one gap adjacent to the
opening, the program connects the two openings together.
.br
2) The pair of remaining gaps with the least distance between their midpoints
is found and connected provided that this distance is no bigger than the
largest gap opening.  This process is repeated until all gaps have been
considered.
.br
3) If both contours are open and neither opening has been paired with another
gap yet, the two openings are connected.
.br
In each of these cases, the connections are added only if none of the points
at the ends of the two paired gaps have a connection number defined.  Thus,
you can prevent an erroneous pairing and connection of two gaps by defining a
connection number on one of the four endpoints.  If two gaps fail to be
connected by this procedure and artifactual triangles are added in the gap,
then you need to define connection numbers at one or both ends of the gap by
hand.  See the Fine Grain dialog help for more details.

.SS Tilted Contours
The program's meshing routines assume that contours
are flat in the X/Y plane and located at integer steps in Z.  However,
it will first analyze the contours of an object to find out if they
deviate from flatness.  If they do, it will find an average orientation of
the contours in each surface and rotate the contours into the X/Y plane.
It then meshes the rotated contours and rotates the mesh back to the
original orientation to fit the contours.  In order for this to work,
two rules must be followed.  First, all the contours in a surface must
have very nearly the same orientation.  An object can have contours in
different orientations as long as they are assigned to different surfaces.
Second, the average spacing between contours must be at least one pixel in
the direction perpendicular to the plane of the contours.
This spacing will be maintained when you model in the slicer window with the
Lock button on and step between slices with the PageUp and PageDown keys. 

.SS Stored Parameters
All of the parameters used to mesh an object are stored in the object.
Most of these stored values are presented in the Remesh panel of the 3dmod
Model View Object Edit window, where they can be modified and used to remesh
the object.  By default, the stored parameters will be ignored and replaced
when you mesh with Imodmesh.  However, with the
.B -u
option, you can use the stored parameters instead of having to enter the
options specifying them.  When you do use stored parameters, any 
option entries that you make will override specific stored values.
In addition,
a set of "-no" options are available for turning off options selected in the
stored parameters.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -u
Use parameters stored in each object to set options for meshing.
.TP
.B -c
This option will cap off the ends of objects at their extreme limits in Z.
.TP
.B -C
This option will cap off all unconnected contours.  
.TP
.B -D \fIlist of Z-values\fR
This option can be used with the
.B -C
option to keep caps from being made on certain sections.  The list of 
Z-values (a comma-separated list of ranges) should specify the Z-values at
which contours are missing for whatever reason.  An unconnected contour on an
adjacent section will not be capped.  
.TP
.B -p \fIvalue\fR
Don't make connections unless a given percentage of
the contour overlaps with contours above and below.
The valid range is 0 to 100.	The default is 0, 
which means that any amount of overlap will cause a 
connection to be made. 
This option is ignored during the
.B -f
option's second pass through the data.
.TP
.B -s
Normally connections are only made to adjacent
sections in the image data.  This option allows
connections through sections containing no data.
Note that with this option alone, the sections must contain either no data
or whatever is
considered to be a full amount of data.
.TP
.B -P \fIvalue\fR
Do the given number of passes through the contours, connecting contours 
that are progressively farther apart in Z on each pass.  In the simplest case,
contours up to 2 sections apart will be connected with 2 passes, etc.  However,
when the
.B -s
option is also given, the program will connect contours across gaps with no 
data at all on the first pass, then connect contours that are even farther
apart in Z on the next pass, etc.  To avoid generating unintended connections,
use both
.B -s
and
.B -P
and use the minimum number of passes needed to make the desired connections.
.TP
.B -S
This will forbid contours with different surface numbers from being
connected.  Contours with the same surface number
sections will be connected, but ones with different surface numbers will not.
Thus, if you use surface numbers at all, you must make all of the contours
that belong in one meshed entity have the same surface number.  Contour
connection numbers would be an easier way to control a small number of 
misconnections.
.TP
.B -I
Ignore time values and connect contours at different times.  By default,
a model drawn on multiple image files (referred to as different times in 3dmod)
will be meshed by connecting only contours with the same time values.  This
option can be used to override this behavior, in case the contours contain
inappropriate time information.
.TP
.B -f
Force more connections.  Do a final pass through
the contour data and make any leftover connections
with no requirement for contour overlap.  This pass occurs after any
multiple passes selected with the
.B -P
option.  Only contours on sections that would ordinarily be connected without
the 
.B -P
option will be connected.  If this option makes undesirable connections, use
contour connection numbers.
.TP
.B -t \fIlist\fR
Open contours are by default connected together in a mesh if possible.
This option causes a tube-like mesh of diameter given by the
line width to be created instead, for objects in the list (comma-separated list
of ranges).  Closed contour objects included in the list will be meshed as
usual.
.TP
.B -d \fIdiameter\fR
Override the default diameter used for making tubes with the
.B -t
option.  The diameter is given in pixels, the default value is the
3D line width of the current object.  In addition, -1 or -2 can be
entered to set the diameter from the spherical point size or from the symbol
size, respectively.  Either of these items can vary from point to point.
.TP
.B -E
Cap the ends of tubes made with the 
.B -t
option.
.TP
.B -H
Cap the ends of tubes with hemispheres (domes) instead of flat disks.  If you
use this option, you do not need the 
.B -E
option.  
These two options are only way to get tubes capped and are independent of the
.B -c
and
.B -C
options.
.TP
.B -T 
Do more time consuming calculations by searching exhaustively through all
possible sets of connections instead of guessing at one initial connection.
This may help reduce artifacts in some cases.  This flag can cause the
computation to take an order of magnitude more time.
.TP
.B -o \fIlist of object #'s\fR
Do operations only on objects in the list of numbers.  The list can consist
of comma-separated ranges (e.g., 1,7-11,13-17,19).
Without this option, all objects are scanned for skinning.
.TP
.B -R \fIvalue\fR
Tolerance value for point reduction, given in pixels.  With this option, the
number of points is reduced by removing ones which are less than a certain
distance from the remaining line segments.  This will remove points
selectively from relatively straight segments and not from tight corners.
A tolerance value of about 0.25 can substantially reduce the number of points
with little perceptible change in the model; larger values could be used to
get models that mesh and display faster.
.TP
.B -i \fIvalue\fR
Form a mesh between contours at z-values that are a multiple of
the given z-increment.
.TP
.B -z \fIminimum,maximum,[increment]\fR
Filters which contours will be considered while meshing.
Contours less then the minimum value and greater then the
maximum value will be skipped. An optional increment value
will cause only z-values that are a multiple of the given
increment to be meshed.
.TP
.B -x \fIminimum,maximum\fR
.B -y \fIminimum,maximum\fR
Exclude triangles from the mesh if they are outside the given limits in X or
in Y.  This is an alternative to using clipping planes to chop off surfaces at
the edge of the data set, although the result will be more ragged than using a
clipping plane.
.TP
.B -l
Form a low resolution mesh.  Any new mesh data created by this run of the
program will be marked as low resolution mesh.  Existing low resolution mesh
will be replaced but existing high resolution mesh will be retained.  If
tolerance and z-increment values are not entered with the
.B -R, -i,
or
.B -z
options, relatively large default values are used to generate a coarse mesh.
The low resolution mesh can be toggled on and off in the 3dmod Model View
window with the View-Low Res menu entry or the "R" hot key.
.TP
.B -F \fIvalue\fR
This option sets the criterion Z difference for deciding whether
contours are flat enough to mesh without rotating.
If the value is nonzero, the program will determine the maximum Z extent of
all contours in the object.  If the Z difference is greater than the
criterion, it will mesh each surface separately after finding the best
rotation angles for it.  The default value is 1.5.
.TP
.B -a
Append the mesh data to objects, replacing only the existing mesh in the
given range instead of replacing the entire mesh.  This option would be used
to "edit" a mesh that has problems, by skinning only a few Z planes with the
.B -T
option.
.TP
.B -e
Erase all mesh data instead of creating new data.  Other options besides
.B -l
and
.B -o
are ignored.
.TP
.B -n
Recompute the normals in the existing mesh, without computing a new mesh from
contours.  Other options besides
.B -l
and
.B -o
are ignored.
.TP
.B -n
Rescale the normals in the existing mesh by the value given in the 
.B -Z
option.
.TP
.B -Z \fIscale\fR
A scaling multiplier applied to the z values of normals.  The
default value is 1.0.
.TP
.B -noc
.PD 0
.TP
.B -noC
.TP
.B -nos
.TP
.B -noS
.TP
.B -noI
.TP
.B -nof
.TP
.B -noE
.TP
.B -noT
.PD
Turn off the corresponding option when using stored parameters.
.TP
.B -noD
Remove any restrictions on Z values to cap to when using stored parameters.
.TP
.B -not
Do not mesh open objects as tubes when using stored parameters.
.TP
.B -nox
.PD 0
.TP
.B -noy
.TP
.B -noz
.PD
Remove any limits on X, Y, or Z coordinates when using stored parameters.
.TP
.B -B
Make mesh output backward-compatible to IMOD before 3.6.14 if possible.  
Regardless of this option, if a
mesh contains fine-grained display changes, then it will be encoded in a 
new-style mesh, which results in a 20% smaller model file.  This option can
be set automatically for all runs of imodmesh by setting the environment
variable IMODMESH_OLDMESH.

.SH FILES
A backup file of the original model is created with the 
~ extension.
.SH AUTHORS
Jim Kremer and David Mastronarde <mast@colorado.edu>
.SH SEE ALSO
3dmod(1), 3dmodv(1), reducecont(1)

The algorithm in imodmesh is based on:
.br
Fuchs, H., Kedem, Z.M., and Uselton, S.P. 1977.  Optimal surface reconstruction
from planar contours.  Graphics and Image Processing, 20: 693-702.
.br
Shantz, M. 1981.  Surface definition for branching, contour-defined objects.
Computer Graphics, 15: 242-267.
.SH BUGS
The algorithm for finding the set of triangles with minimum area is currently
quadratic; that is, execution time is proportional to the square of the number
of points in the contours being connected.  imodmesh can bog down badly if
there are too many points; point reduction with the 
.B -R
option will solve this for now.

Here are some things that will create strange-looking meshes:

Contours on the same section that overlap.  There is now a function that
eliminates modest amounts of overlap before meshing.

Two unconnected branches that overlap in the next section.
Setting a threshold for percentage overlap with the 
.B -p
option may keep them from being connected incorrectly.

Two overlapping horseshoes that open in different places.  The program would 
need to recognize this situation and split both into inside and outside
contours before trying to join them.
