.na
.nh
.TH imodinfo 1 2.30 BL3DEMC
.SH NAME
imodinfo \- Prints information about IMOD files.
.SH SYNOPSIS
imodinfo [options] <IMOD filename>
.SH DESCRIPTION
Prints information about an IMOD model to standard output.
The types of information output vary, depending upon the options.
Typical uses include printing out 
lists of objects, contours and
point data in an IMOD file; 
printing out areas, lengths and centroids of contours;
and printing out surface areas and volumes of objects or surfaces.  The
measurements are generally expressed in terms of the units of the pixel size
defined in the model header (e.g., nm or microns), if one is defined.  A
Z-scale in the model header is also applied as appropriate.

The program computes surface area and volume in several different ways,
depending upon whether an object is meshed or not:
.br
     1) If there is no mesh information, volume is computed 
by taking the area of each contour times the thickness of
the sections (defined by pixel size and Z-scale), summed over all of the
contours.  This is referred to as cylinder volume.  It will be inaccurate
if you skipped sections in modeling, especially if you skipped sections
routinely.  Other than this, it will be very close to correct.
.br
     2) If there is no mesh information, surface area is computed by taking
the length of each contour times the section thickness, summed over all
contours.  This is referred to as cylinder surface area and it is grossly
inaccurate.
.br
     3) With mesh information, the program determines which contours are
connected to other contours or to cap points by a mesh, and sums the area of
contours times the distance to the connected contours in Z.  This measure is
now referred to as the contour volume.  (It used to be referred to as mesh
volume because it uses mesh information, even though it is not the volume
inside the mesh.)  It handles the problem of skipped sections and also gives a
slightly more accurate volume measurement for the capped regions because it
integrates with a trapezoidal approximation.  This computation is valid only
for closed contour, planar objects.
.br
     4) With a mesh, the program also computes a volume from the mesh by
summing the volumes of tetraheda formed between each mesh triangle and a
single point at the center of the mesh.  This is referred to as the volume
inside the mesh.  It will be slightly more accurate than the contour volume if
the mesh completely encloses the volume, but it can be quite inaccurate if the
mesh is not capped.  This computation is valid for any fully meshed volume,
including tubular meshes around an open contour.
.br
     5) With a mesh, surface area is computed by adding the areas of all the
triangles in the mesh.  This is referred to as mesh surface area and it is
an exact measure of the area of the mesh.  However, to the extent that the
mesh is not smooth, it can overestimate the true surface
area of the object.
.br 
If any of your model objects has complex topology, with contours inside of
other contours, the computed volumes will not be correct unless the program
analyzes for inside contours, which it does not do by default.  Use
.B -i
option to have the program do this analysis.  However, if you use
.B -x
or
.B -y
to specify
a subset range in X or Y, or use 
.B -t
to restrict the analysis with clipping planes, the inside-contour
analysis is done automatically and you do not need to specify
.B -i
separately.  With these other options, the program will give the same outputs
as with the
.B -i
option.

The options 
.B -a
, 
.B -c
, 
.B -l
, 
.B -o
,
.B -p
, 
.B -r
and 
.B -s 
are mutually exclusive.
.SS Options
.TP
.B -a
Print ascii readable IMOD output. Not all of the types
of data stored in a binary model are printed in an ascii
model file, but all contour and mesh data are printed.  Also, slicer angles,
clipping planes, and general values assigned to contours and points will be
printed
.TP
.B -c
Print volume, surface area, and center of gravity for each object in
column output.  For closed contour objects, the centroid is computed from the
area enclosed inside each contour.  For open contour objects, the centroid
is computed from the line segments themselves.
.TP
.B -l
Print lengths of open contours in column output.
.TP
.B -s
Print volumes and surface areas for each separate surface in an object.
.TP
.B -p
Print point size information, including a summary of mean radius, and the
implied total surface area and volume of scattered points.  Note that the
ascii model output will also show point sizes in pixels for each point that
has one defined.
.TP
.B -r
Print ratio of length to area for closed contours.
.TP
.B -o <list>
Print full report on the objects given in the list, a comma-separated list
of ranges.
.TP
.B -i
Analyze for inside contours and adjust computed volume by subtracting
rather than adding the areas of contours that represent inside-out surfaces.
This option works only for closed contours.  It is invoked automatically if
you analyze a subset in X or Y, or use clipping planes.
Individual contour data will not be printed for closed contour 
objects.
.TP 
.B -x <min,max>
.TP
.B -y <min,max>
.TP
.B -z <min,max>
Compute areas and volumes within the subvolume specified by the minimum and
maximum values.  One or two of these three options may be entered if
desired.  Subvolume analysis works only with closed contour and scattered
point objects.  It works for options that print surface areas and volumes and 
with the
.B -p
option.  In the standard output, the number of scattered points within 
the subvolume will be reported for each object.
.TP
.B -t <1/-1>
Truncate objects by their respective clipping planes; enter 
.B -t 1
or
.B -t -1
to use region shown or not shown by the clipping planes, respectively.
All currently active object clipping planes will be applied, as well as
any active global clipping planes for objects that do not have the setting to 
skip the global planes.  
Like the subvolume analysis, this option
works only with closed contour and scattered
point objects, and for options that print surface areas and volumes and
with the
.B -p
option.
Clipping plane truncation
can be used together with subvolume analysis.
.TP
.B -v[v]
Print more verbose output. The 
.B -vv
option will increase the level of output information even further.  These 
options override the
.B -h
option.
.TP
.B -h
Suppress the information about each contour in the standard model output.
Use this option to extract summary information more easily from large models.
.TP
.B -f <filename>
Write output to given filename instead of to standard output.
.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Jim Kremer 
David Mastronarde
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
3dmod(1)
.SH BUGS
Cylinder surface areas are erroneous because they do not account for the 
obliquity of the surface; for a sphere the area will be underestimated by
22%.  Use mesh surface areas whenever possible.

Email bug reports to mast@colorado.edu.
