.na
.nh
.TH imod2vrml2 1 2.00 BL3DEMC
.SH NAME
imod2vrml2 \- Make a VRML2.0 model from an IMOD model file.
.SH SYNOPSIS
imod2vrml2  [options]  IMOD_model  WML_file
.SH DESCRIPTION
Convert an IMOD model file to the VRML 2.0 file format used by VRML
viewers and as a common format for interchange of 3D models by
3D animation and CAD programs.  The model will generally 
have similar attributes to those set in 3dmodv before the conversion.
Specifically, objects that are turned off will not
be included in the VRML file.  Scattered points will always display
as shaded spheres ('geometry Sphere' objects), regardless of options
are selected and all meshes should convert across as 'IndexedFaceSet'
objects in the VRML/WML file. If object fill is off points should
be generated using a 'PointSet' object, although these don't
render in all VRML viewers.
.P
For shaded surfaces, the intensity levels may be quite different
in the VRML viewer than in 3dmodv, depending on the settings in the viewer.
If you are generating files for a particular VRML viewer, you can adjust
the Material properties in 3dmodv to get the desired appearance in the viewer.  
The Ambient setting will have no effect, so adjust intensity primarily with
the Diffuse setting, and then with the Specular and Shininess settings.
Transparency may also need to be set higher to achieve the desired level, as
well to minimize artifacts from overlapping transparent
surfaces which become more evident at some orientations.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 
.B -l
Use low-resolution meshes, if any are available.  The default is to use the
highest resolution meshes contained in the model.  Low resolution meshes can
be produced with the 
.B -l
option to imodmesh(1).
.TP 
.B -a
Output all objects (by default those switched off are omitted).
.TP 
.B -r
Groups all objects together in an 'imod_model' object and rotates this such
that the Z axis become up in Y. This feature is useful when exporting to
animation programs
.TP 
.B -g
Don't assign names to child geometries (by default they get DEF names in
the form 'obj1_mesh' or 'cont2_pt1').
.TP 
.B -n
Output normals (off by default as most 3d programs which import VRML2 can
generate their own normals if missing).
.B -c
Show all contour lines (across all objects) in output VRML file.
.SH AUTHORS
Andrew Noske, based on "imod2vrml" by Jim Kremer and David Mastronarde
.SH SEE ALSO
3dmodv(1), imodmesh(1), imod2vrml(1)
.SH BUGS
Email bug reports to mast@colorado.edu, and CC to andrew<DOT>noske<AT>gmail<DOT>com.
