.TH imodenv 1 3.10 BL3DEMC
.na
.nh

.SH NAME
Description of IMOD environment variables

.SH DESCRIPTION
This page describes all of the environment variables that can be set for use
with IMOD programs.

.TP
.B AUTODOC_DIR
Alternative directory to search for an autodoc file when a program uses PIP
for input.
.TP
.B ETOMO_LOG_DIR
Directory into which eTomo will place error log files named by date and time,
instead of into $HOME/.etomologs.  Set this to a non-existent name (e.g.,
stuffAndNonsense) to have sequentially numbered error logs kept in the
directory from which eTomo was started.
.TP
.B ETOMO_LOGS_TO_RETAIN
Set this to the number of log files named by date and time to retain in the 
directory where they are kept.  The default is 31 if this variable is not set.
.TP
.B ETOMO_MEM_LIM
Memory limit for running etomo.  Define this as a number of megabytes followed
by the letter "m".  The default of 128m is set in the etomo startup script.
Larger values will allow larger final alignment logs to be displayed.
.TP
.B IMOD_ALL_MACHINES
Comma-separated line of machine names that will be used by processchunks
when it is given ALL instead of a machine list.
.TP
.B IMOD_AUTOSAVE
Interval at which 3dmod should autosave the model, in minutes (superceded by
setting in 3dmod preferences).
.TP
.B IMOD_AUTOSAVE_DIR
Directory into which 3dmod should autosave the model (superceded by
setting in 3dmod preferences).
.TP
.B IMOD_BRIEF_HEADER
If this variable is set, all Fortran programs except header(1) will output
a brief header with the dimensions, pixel size, mode, minimum, maximum,
and mean value, and the first and last title.
.TP
.B IMOD_CALIB_DIR
Directory in which IMOD-related information can live, unaffected by upgrading
the main IMOD directory.  Set by startup scripts to /usr/local/ImodCalib.
.TP
.B IMOD_CSHELL
Variable specifying a command to use when running csh/tcsh on a script.
Used by Bead Fixer and could be used elsewhere.  This variable can contain a
path to the C shell executable plus flags.  The -f flag is always added.
.TP
.B IMOD_DIR
The path to the top IMOD directory; set by startup scripts, or can be set
before startup script is run.
.TP
.B IMOD_JAVADIR
Location of Java to be used to run eTomo; $IMOD_JAVADIR/bin is put on the
front of the path in the etomo startup script.
.TP
.B IMOD_PLUGIN_DIR
Main directory for IMOD plugins; set by startup scripts to be inside IMOD.
.TP
.B IMOD_PROCESSORS
Number of processors in the computer; used by slicer to decide how many threads
to run in parallel.  Also used to create a parallel processing table when
cpu.adoc is not found.
.TP
.B IMOD_PS_FONT
Name of a font (instead of Helvetica) to use in the Postscript output from 
various graphics programs; Arial is good for going to Illustrator.
.TP
.B IMOD_QTLIBDIR
Directory in which IMOD's copy of Qt lives, if any.  Set by startup IMOD
scripts.
.TP
.B IMOD_DUMP_FSCACHE
Makes 3dmod tell the system to dismiss the file system cache while
loading a file on Linux.  This behavior was originally the default because,
on early 64-bit systems with files bigger
than about half of the system memory capacity,
the system would swap out data within 3dmod while loading.
This bad system behavior is no longer observed in testing on FC4, RHEL4 and 
RHEL5.  Set this variable (no value needed) for working on systems that
show this problem.
.TP
.B IMOD_STEREO_COMMAND
When using hardware stereo, system command for switching the monitor to
display left and right buffers in overlapping fashion.
.TP
.B IMOD_STEREO_RESTORE
System command for switching the monitor back to normal mode.
.TP
.B IMOD_STEREO_TBOFFSET
Default value of vertical offset when using top/bottom stereo display.
.TP 
.B IMOD_TEST_SECTION
This is passed to the uitest script when running eTomo tests.  It is used to
choose one of the tests in uitest.adoc.
.TP
.B IMOD_TMPDIR
Path for temporary directory used by scripts.  On Windows, this should be in
Cygwin format, not in Windows format.
.TP
.B IMOD_UITEST_DATA
When running eTomo tests, the root directory for data files.
.TP
.B IMOD_UITEST_SCRIPT 
This is used in uitest.make.  It should be set to the
location of the uitest script
.TP
.B IMOD_UITEST_SOURCE
When running eTomo tests, the location of the uitest.adoc and all
autodocs it refers to.
.TP
.B IMOD_USE_GPU
This variable will tell the Tilt program (and eventually perhaps other
programs) to use the GPU on a CUDA-capable NVIDIA graphics card.  Set the
variable to 0 to use the best available GPU, or to a positive number to
specify the GPU to use.  If there is only one GPU, 0 and 1 have the same
effect.  This setting is overridden by the UseGPU entry to Tilt, if any.
.TP
.B PIP_PRINT_ENTRIES
Set this variable to 1 to enable printing of all options entered into a program
using PIP input or 0 to disable it.  The variable is automatically
set to 1 when running programs through command files (i.e., vmstocsh and
vmstopy both add lines to their output to set the variable to 1).
Thus, if you leave the variable unset in your environment, entries will be
printed in programs run through "subm" but not when programs are run at the
command line.  If you want the output when running at the command line, set
the variable to 1 in your environment.  To avoid this output when running 
a command file, add a line
.br
    $setenv PIP_PRINT_ENTRIES 0
.br
at the beginning of the file.
.TP
.B RAPTOR_BIN
Directory where RAPTOR executables are located, if they are not in 
/usr/local/RAPTOR/bin.
