.na
.nh
.TH joinmodel 1 4.6.34 BL3DEMC
.SH NAME
joinmodel - to join two models together
.SH SYNOPSIS
joinmodel
.SH DESCRIPTION
Joinmodel will combine two models, joining objects in the
SECOND model to the ends of objects in the FIRST model, if the
corresponding points match up sufficiently well.  Branch points are
allowed in either model, and should be preserved even during joining
of objects.  Point "marks" (numbers controlling point symbol
display), which are properties of individual points in the model,
will be preserved, but text labels in the second model will not.
.P
Objects will be joined together only if there is physical
overlap between the end of the object in the FIRST model and the
start of the object in the SECOND model.  If an object in the FIRST
model ends on one section and an object in the SECOND model starts
in the same location on the next section, they will not be joined.
.P
When two objects are joined together, the points in the object in the
SECOND model that overlap will be thrown away, and the rest of the
points in that object will be added to the end of the object in the
FIRST model.  The resulting object will have the same color and
other attributes as the original object in the FIRST model.  All
other objects will be carried over into the joined model without
modification.
.P
Entries to the program:
.P
.nf
Name of SECOND model file (YES, it needs the SECOND one first).
Name of FIRST model file
Name of output model file
.fi
.P
Maximum distance in the X-Y plane, and maximum separation in Z,
   allowed in order for points from the two different models to be
   considered matching points.  Enter / to accept the default values
   in brackets.
.P
Maximum overlap to look for between objects in the two models.
   Enter / to accept the default value in brackets.  This parameter
   controls how long it takes the program to look for matches.
.P
.P
The program considers the end point of each object in the FIRST
model in turn.  It looks for a match between that end point and the
first, second, etc. point of each object in the SECOND model
(up to the number specified by the maximum overlap parameter).  When
it finds a match, it then tests whether each of the points from the
beginning of the object in the SECOND model up to that matching point
also match the corresponding points in the object in the FIRST model.
Only if there is a complete match along the entire stretch of overlap
will the objects be joined.
.SH HISTORY
.nf
Written by David Mastronarde, 1/10/90
.fi
.SH BUGS
Email bug reports to mast@colorado.edu.
