.na
.nh
.TH matchrotpairs 1 2.8.2 BL3DEMC
.SH NAME
matchrotpairs \- find transform between best matching pair of rotated views
.SH SYNOPSIS
matchrotpairs [options] file_a file_b output_transform
.SH DESCRIPTION
Matchrotpairs is used to find the transformation between two images rotated by
about 90 degrees from each other.  This transformation is then supplied to
Finddistort(1), which will use it to compute the absolute stretch component of
an image distortion field.  However, the stretch cannot be computed accurately
if one of the images is of a tilted specimen, because a tilt will shrink
the image slightly perpendicular to the tilt axis.  Also, the specimen cannot
be assumed to be horizontal at zero tilt.  The solution to these problems is
to use a specimen with some features distributed at different heights, take a
small tilt series of the specimen (e.g., at -4, -2, 0, 2, and 4 degrees),
rotate it by 90 degrees, and take another such tilt series.
Matchrotpairs can then be used to search for the pair of views from the two
series that match the best, using essentially the same procedure as in
Transferfid(1).  The difference between these images can then be
assumed to be the result of the rotation alone, even if the specimen is tilted
in each of these two views.

The recommended procedure would be to run Finddistort(1) first to find a
zero-stretch distortion field, and to supply this field to Matchrotpairs.
The two best matching images will be undistorted and these undistorted images
should then differ only by a stretch, allowing the stretch to be determined
with the greatest accuracy.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -za \fIz1,z2\fR
The starting and ending sections from the first input file to include in the
search, numbered from 1.  The default is to use all sections from the first
file.
.TP
.B -zb \fIz1,z2\fR
The starting and ending sections from the second input file to include in the
search, numbered from 1.    The default is to use all sections from the second
file.  Note that the two tilt series can be placed in the
same file, that file name can be given for both input files, and the 
.B -za
and
.B -zb
options can be used to indicate where the two tilt series are in the file.
.TP
.B -a \fIvalue\fR
Use this option to specify the direction of rotation from the first to the
second axis.  Only the sign of this number matters, so you can enter -1 or -90
for clockwise rotations, or 1 or 90 for counterclockwise rotations.  In the
absence of this option, the program will consider both directions of rotation.
.TP
.B -m
Run Midas(1) on the central pair of views, and use the alignment that you set
in Midas as the initial alignment for all pairs of views that are considered.
A correction for stretch will be applied in the initial alignment of the other
pairs and may be needed in some cases.
.TP
.B -d \fIfile\fR
Name of file with zero-stretch image distortion field from Finddistort(1).
.TP
.B -b \fIvalue\fR
The binning of the images, which usually needs to be specified when
undistorting.
.TP 
.B -t
Leave temporary files in /usr/tmp or its equivalent for diagnosing problems.
.TP 
.B -P
Output process ID.
.SH FILES
The best matching pair will be undistorted if the 
.B -b
option is given and stacked into a file with the root name of the
output file and the extension ".stack".
If the output file already exists, a backup image
of the original is created
with the ~ extension.
.SH AUTHOR
David Mastronarde  <mast@colorado.edu>
.SH SEE ALSO
finddistort(1), transferfid(1), midas(1)
