.na
.nh
.TH midas 1 2.50 BL3DEMC
.SH NAME
midas \- manual image alignment for MRC files.
.SH SYNOPSIS
midas  [options]  image_file  [transform_file]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Midas allows one to assess and adjust the alignment between pairs of images.
It is typically used to align images from serial sections and to correct
errors in a pre-alignment of tilt series images by cross-correlation.  It can
also be used to adjust the alignment between adjacent pieces in a montaged
image.  There
are interactive controls for adjusting translation, rotation, magnification
(scale), and stretch along an axis.  Linear transformations are used to apply
the translation, rotation or distortion.  This means that the same amount of
translation, rotation or distortion happens everywhere in an image.  A
nonlinear transformation, or warping, can be added by marking selected
points and locally aligning images at those locations.

All transformation parameters can be adjusted by dragging a
point on the image with the mouse.
The help menus describe the functions of each mouse button, as well as the
operation of the various controls and hot keys.  The controls also have
tooltips with brief summaries of their function.

Midas also allows one to adjust the brightness and contrast of each image
independently to ease comparisons.  The program can produce a copy of the
image stack with these individual contrast changes applied (but not with the
transformations applied).

The input image files for Midas must be MRC files.  They can be byte, integer,
or real images, and can also be RGB images, which will be displayed in
grayscale.  The latter option can be used to align model contours displayed on
an image by snapshotting the Zap window in 3dmod(1) and creating a color MRC 
stack with tif2mrc(1).

.SS Alignment modes
Midas maintains a list of transformations, one for each section in the image
file. 
At any given time, one section is the "current" section, it is displayed
with its transformation applied to it, and any adjustments in alignment 
modify that transform.  Another section is the "reference" section to
which the current section is being aligned.  Other aspects of the way that
transforms are treated depend on which mode Midas is operating in: local,
global, or reference.

In local alignment mode, each image section is usually aligned to the previous
section.  The transformations in this mode are sometimes referred to as "xf"
transforms, which are suitable only for aligning one image to another.
The program xftoxg(1) is used to convert xf transforms into the "xg" transforms
that are suitable for transforming the whole image stack into alignment.
In this mode, Midas displays the reference section without transforming it,
and any changes in transformation are applied only to the transform of the
current section.

In global alignment mode, each image section is effectively aligned to the
entire image stack.  The transformations are of the global (xg) type, ready to
use to transform all of the images into alignment.  
There are two differences in program operation that achieve this: first,
the reference section's transformation is applied whenever it is displayed;
second, when you modify the transform of the current section, the transforms
of all following sections are changed by the same amount.  Global alignment
may be suitable for aligning small sets of sections because of its simplicity.
However, it is not recommended for larger numbers of sections (more than
20-30).  Local alignment followed by the use of xftoxg(1) is preferable
because it will automatically keep the aligned images from drifting out of the
field of view.  It will also preserve trends in the data; for example, if you
align using features that gradually get smaller, global alignment may
eliminate this size change, while local alignment will preserve it, even if
every transform over the series includes a size change.

If you do want to use global alignment mode, you may want to start in the
middle of the image stack and work forward from there.  Then, turn off the
"Keep Curr-Ref Diff" box, make the middle section be the reference
again and make the previous section be the current section.  Turn the
"Keep Curr-Ref Diff" box back on again and work backwards to the beginning of
the stack.

Reference alignment mode is used to align each image in a stack to a single
image that may be in another image file.  The other image file is specified
with the 
.B -r
option.  In this mode, advancing or backing up by a section changes only the
current section unless you turn on the "Keep Curr-Ref Diff" option; with that
option off, the reference section is changed only by typing a
new number into its text box.  If your reference section happens to be in the
same file as the images being aligned to it, then you can either specify
that file as both the reference and the image file, or start Midas in local
alignment mode then turn off the "Keep Curr-Ref Diff" box and set the
reference and current sections independently.

In global or reference alignment mode, a menu option can be used to transform
a model file using the transformations available for each section, just as
with imodtrans(1).

.SS Warping Images
Warping can introduced by adding a set of points, referred to as control
points, and applying an appropriate shift at each point.  This warping is in
addition to whatever linear transformation has been set.  To start adding
points, turn on "Add/edit warp points".  You can then add a point with the
middle mouse button and shift images into alignment at that location with
either the left mouse button, the X and Y translation buttons, or the arrow
keys.  The shift at the point is shown on the lines with the X and Y
translation buttons, while the translation component of the linear
transformation is shown on a separate line.

Until there are at least four points, shifting a control point
will just change the linear transformation.  With one point, it will shift the
whole image; with two points, shifting at one point will rotate and magnify
the image to keep it stationary at the other point; with three points,
shifting at one point will stretch the image to keep it aligned at the other
two points.  You can thus use three points in this way to set a linear
transformation.  If the linear transformation is already set, you should
probably add four or more points before shifting any of them.  Once there are
at least four points, you can no longer turn off the option to edit warp
points because the linear translation is fixed.

Make the control points widely spaced and distributed over as much of the area
as possible.  The program will warp the image inside the region bounded by the
control points but has to use extrapolated transformations outside that region.

A control point is considered to be fixed on the reference image.  You can
thus add the point at a recognizable feature on the reference image, then
shift the current image to center that feature on the point.  You can change
the fixed location of the point by clicking with the right mouse button.  The
currently active point is shown in yellow and other points are shown in red.
Click with the left mouse button to select the nearest point as the active
point.  There is a menu entry and a hot key for deleting the current point.

Warping transformations can be specified only in local or reference alignment
mode.  Xftoxg(1) can convert them to global transformations.  They can be used
interchangeably with linear transforms in Xfproduct(1), Xfinverse(1),
Newstack(1), Blendmont(1), Xfmodel(1), and serial tomogram joining.

.SS Storage of Transforms
The transformation for the current section is automatically stored on the
internal list of transforms when you change to a different section.  Before
changing sections, you can restore the transform to the stored value using
an entry in the Edit menu.  There are also menu entries to 
reset to the unit transform (no translations, rotations, etc.) and to
store the current transform on the internal list.  You can use the latter to
save a transform that you like before trying to improve on it.

If the name of a file of transforms is entered after the image filename when
first starting Midas,
then Midas will read transforms from this file, and images will initially
be displayed with these transforms.  This file then becomes the default file
into which Midas will save transforms.  Transforms can be saved into a
different file with the File menu entry "Save As".  After doing so, that file
becomes the default file for successive save operations.
In either case, the first time that Midas saves to a file, it will make a
backup of an existing file by that name by adding ~ at the end.
If the name of a transform file that does not yet exist is entered on the
command line, Midas will create and save into that file.

.SS Using Global Rotations and Cosine Stretching
Midas can rotate all images by a common amount and allow you to adjust
transformations in the rotated images.  This ability, invoked with the
.B -a
option, can be used to make the tilt axis vertical when aligning a tilt
series.  When the program is started in this mode, there is a control for
adjusting the global rotation angle.  There is also a check box to constrain
translations with the mouse to the X direction, which is usually the only
direction that needs fixing in a tilt series pre-aligned by correlation.
This rotation provides a convenient way to look at tilted images but should
not affect the alignment; the transformations output by the program are
independent of the global rotation angle.  However, the X and Y translations
that are displayed and adjusted in Midas are relative to the rotated images
and will change with the angle.  Global rotations can be used in local or
global alignment mode.

Midas can also apply cosine stretching of images if a file of tilt angles is
provided with the
.B -t
option.  It will stretch the current image by the ratio of the cosines of the
current and reference image tilt angles.  The stretch is always along the X
axis after applying a global rotation, so invoking this option turns on the
global rotation mode.  With such a stretch, it should be easier to find the
shift that aligns the images.  If stretched images do not line up well, even
when looking just at features on one Z plane, then an offset can be applied to
the tilt angles.  As with global rotation, this stretching does
not affect the alignment transforms output by the program, but the X
translation that is displayed in the program does depend on the stretching.
Cosine stretching cannot be used in global or reference alignment mode.

.SS Aligning Chunks of Sections
Midas has another mode of operation that can be used to align tomograms of
serial sections.  This is referred to as "chunk" alignment because sections
are considered in chunks, where a chunk corresponds to all of the slices
from one tomogram.  In this mode, all of the sections in a chunk are
given the same transformation alignment, so there is only one transformation
per chunk.  This mode is a variant of the local alignment mode, with the
additional constraint that the alignment is always between adjacent pairs
of chunks.  When adjusting the transformation between a pair of chunks, you
can view any pair of sections from the two chunks, and you are also free to
scroll through the slices in a chunk to discern trends in position.
Activate this mode by specifying the number of sections in each chunk with
the 
.B -c
option.  To get
one transformation per tomogram, do not divide the slices from the top and
bottom of tomogram into separate chunks.

.SS Fixing Montage Overlaps
When the pieces of a montage need to be shifted into registration with each
other, Blendmont(1) uses the image displacements in the overlap zones between
adjacent pieces to determine how to shift the pieces.  Sometimes Blendmont
does not determine a displacement correctly, leading to erroneous registration
of the pieces.  To use Midas to correct the displacements, start Midas with
the 
.B -p
option followed by the name of the piece list file.   After the montaged
image file name, in place of a transformation file, enter the name of the
edge correlation displacement (.ecd) file produced by Blendmont.
You can then display and adjust the overlap between any pair of adjacent
pieces on any section.  Overlap zones are referred to as edges and are of two
types: X edges
between pieces in a horizontal row, and Y edges between pieces in a column.
X edges are numbered sequentially from left to right, first in the bottom
row, then in the next row, etc.
Y edges are numbered from bottom to top in columns, with the leftmost column
being the first one.
The edge number controls, just below the section controls, allow one to select
any given edge by this number, but they also allow you to see and select an
edge by the X
and Y frame number of the lower piece (the one to the left of an X edge, or
below a Y edge).  To find edges that need fixing, it is usually more
convenient to use the buttons provided for
selecting one of the edges with the worst displacement errors.

When two pieces are displayed, their X and Y translation values correspond
to the image displacement at that edge, originally measured by Blendmont and
possibly adjusted within Midas.  The displacements for all of the edges
are used to determine the optimal shifts of the piece.  When these shifts are
applied to the pieces, they produce displacements at all of the edges,
displacements that
may or may not match the individual displacements measured from the images
there.  A mismatch at an edge is a displacement error, which has X and Y
components.  Large displacement errors arise when the displacement measured at
an edge does not align the images there.  Manually aligning images at an edge
with a large error will thus reduce the error there and also at other edges
involving the same pieces.  

If there is only one edge with a mismeasured
displacement, then solving for the shifts using all of the other edges while
leaving out the one in question will often imply a perfectly good
displacement at that edge.  The difference between this displacement and the
measured one is called the "leave-out error", and pushing the "Apply Leave-out
Error" button will adjust the edge to the displacement implied by all of the
other edges.  If an edge shows a visible image mismatch that appears to
correspond to the leave-out error, then pushing this button is a useful 
shortcut for aligning the images by hand.

One must be careful to examine both of the edges with the top two errors when 
the erroneous edge involves a corner piece in the montage, a not infrequent
occurrence.  In this case, the error will be equally divided between the
two edges of the corner piece, even though there is an erroneous measurement
at only one of them.  For similar reasons, a 2 by 2 montage with an erroneous
displacement will spread the error equally among all four edges.

If the montage consists of only one row or one column, all errors
will be zero regardless of whether the displacements have been measured
correctly.  Visual examination of the edges is the only way to detect and
correct errors in the measured displacements.

When there are more than 10 pieces, the program can find a more robust
solution for the shifts between pieces that can give less weight to or
eliminate edges that have obviously erroneous displacement.  This is referred
to as robust fitting.  Its main value in Midas is to make the edges with bad
diplacements show up with particularly high errors.  The degree of robustness
is controlled by a criterion value with a default value of 1.  With the
default value, some edges that have good displacements may be downweighted
inappropriately and thus show up as having a high error even though they are
well-aligned.  A higher criterion will prevent this from happening but may
fail to identify some bad edges as outliers (values up to about 1.5 should be
tried).

If an edge with a good alignment shows up as having a large error with robust
fitting enabled, use the following strategy:
.br
1) Continue to fix or exclude other edges with high errors.  The error of the
well-aligned edge may drop as other errors around it are resolved.
.br
2) If the well-aligned edge still has a high error after other edges with high
errors have been fixed, examine all of the edges around the two pieces below
and above this edge.  You may find a small misalignment.
.br
3) If you still can not find a misaligned edge, raise the fitting criterion
until the error becomes normal, or ignore the large error.  Note that if you
are going to use the robust fitting option in Blendmont(1), you would need to
set the criterion to this same value to prevent a misalignment across this
edge.

.SH OPTIONS
Midas accepts some Qt options (such as -style) and
the following options.
.TP
.B -g
Start Midas in global alignment mode.  The default is local alignment mode. 
.TP
.B -r \fIfilename\fR
Load a reference image from a file with the given 
.I filename.
This reference image can be used for
aligning an image stack to the single reference image.
.TP
.B -rz \fIsection\fR
This option will select the 
.I section 
number to be used when loading in a reference image with the
.B -r
option.
The default value is the first 
.I section 
which is numbered 0.
.TP
.B -c \fIlist of sizes\fR
Determine alignment between chunks of sections.  Enter a comma-separated list
of the number of sections in each chunk.  The list should add up to the
total number of sections in the image file.  When chunks are entered in this
way, the reference or current section can be set to any section within a chunk.
.TP
.B -cs \fIlist of sizes\fR
Determine alignment between chunks of sections from samples near the
boundaries between chunks (e.g., tomograms corresponding to physical
sections).  Enter a comma-separated list of the number of sections in each
sample, where the first and last chunk have only one sample and other chunks
have two samples.  The list should add up to the total number of sections in
the image file.  When chunks are entered in this way, the reference and
current section are constrained to stay within a sample.
.TP
.B -B \fIfactor\fR
Bin images by the given factor when reading them in.  The translation
component of the transformation shown and adjusted in the program will be
smaller by this amount.  Translations will be scaled down when read in from a
file and scaled back up when written out to file.  Errors shown when fixing
montage overlaps will also be smaller by the binning factor.
.TP
.B -p \fIfilename\fR
Load piece coordinates for a montaged image file from the given
.I filename
and enter montage fixing mode.  The final argument on the command line would
ordinarily be the .ecd file produced by Blendmont(1), but it is possible to
open a montage without such a file.
.TP
.B -C \fIsize\fR
Set the cache
.I size
to the given number of sections.  Sections are read from
the file as needed, intensity-scaled to be stored as bytes, and kept in a
cache.  By default, the cache is limited to about 1 gigabyte, or at least big
enough for 4 sections.  If your file
has more than this number of pixels, and you have more memory available, you 
can use this option to provide enough cache for all sections. 
If you have less than this amount of memory available and your
file has more pixels than there is memory, you should enter an appropriate
.I size
to avoid disk swapping.
.TP
.B -s \fImin,max\fR
Scale the image intensities when reading from the file, so that the range from
.I min
to
.I max
will be scaled to range from 0 to 255 when the section is stored in the
program.
.TP
.B -b \fIsize\fR
Set the initial 
.I size
of the blocks for transforming the current image.  The
larger the block
.I size,
the faster the display, but quality will suffer, especially for images that
are rotated substantially.  A size of 0 will turn on image interpolation.
.TP
.B -a \fIangle\fR
Display all images with a global rotation specified by
.I angle.
When the program is started with this option, the angle can be adjusted if
necessary with a spin box control.
.TP
.B -o \fIfilename\fR
Save transforms to a file with the given 
.I filename
instead of to the file that transforms were read from.
.TP
.B -e \fInumber\fR
When fixing montage overlaps, show the given number of buttons with the
highest errors (between 2 and 10).
.TP
.B -O \fI2 letters\fR
Specify the colors for the previous and current image in overlay mode.  The
colors must be two of r g b c m y which stand for red, green, blue, cyan 
(green + blue), magenta (red + blue), and yellow (red + green).  The two
letters must specify different channels; e.g., rc will work and rm will not.
The default overlay colors are magenta and green (mg).
.TP
.B -D
Run in debug mode, which means do not run the program in the background.
.TP
.B -q
Suppress reminder to rebuild edge functions when exiting after fixing montage
edges.
.SH FILES
The linear transformation files that Midas uses are in the following format.
The files are in ascii format with one line for each image in the image stack.
Each line contains 6 numerical parameters that are used
to calculate the linear transformation.
.br
A11 A12 A21 A22 DX DY
.br

Where for each pixel with the coordinates (X, Y) a new location
(X', Y') is given by the equations below (Xc, Yc is the center of the image).
.br
	X' = A11 * (X - Xc) + A12 * (Y - Yc) + DX + Xc
.br
	Y' = A21 * (X - Xc) + A22 * (Y - Yc) + DY + Yc
.P
Warping transformation files contain a linear transformation of this form plus
the set of control points for each section.  Their format is described in the
libiwarp library documentation.
.SH HISTORY
Midas (Manual Image Deformation and Alignment System) was first written in
Fortran for
a MicroVax with Parallax graphics by David Mastronarde.  Jim
Kremer then wrote a similar program in C for the SGI using first IrisGL,
then X-windows, then OpenGL and Motif.  This was originally named Midas, but
was renamed to Manali after Mastronarde ported the Midas program from the Vax
to the SGI.  For the next version of Midas,
Mastronarde modified Kremer's Manali to incorporate desirable features of the
old Midas (such as manipulation with the mouse), to implement new features 
(such
as caching, ability to zoom large images down, ability to read integer or
real mode files, and treatment of a transform file the way a model file is
treated in 3dmod),
and to provide completely new controls, menus, and help windows.  In the latest
version, the graphical interface was rewritten in Qt.
.SH SEE ALSO
xftoxg(1), imodtrans(1), newstack(1), blendmont(1), 3dmod(1), tif2mrc(1)
.SH BUGS
Email bug reports to mast@colorado.edu.
