.na
.nh
.TH mrc2tif 1 2.00 BL3DEMC
.SH NAME
mrc2tif \- Create TIFF, JPEG, or PNG files from an MRC image file.
.SH SYNOPSIS
mrc2tif  [options]  mrc_input_file  tiff_file_root_name
.SH DESCRIPTION
mrc2tif usually creates a series of TIFF files with the prefix \fItiff_file_root_name\fR
and with the suffix .nnn.tif, where nnn is the z number.  Byte, signed and
unsigned 16-bit integer, float, 
and RGB color files (modes 0, 1, 6, 2, 16) can be converted.  There are
options to create JPEG or PNG files instead of TIFF.  The data will be
written to a TIFF file in the same mode as in the input file by default, but
there are options that allow the integer and float modes to be scaled to
bytes; the same options allow scaling of byte and RGB values.  If the input
file has only one section, then the output file will simply be the 
\fItiff_file_root_name\fR with no suffix added.  
.P
When the output mode is integer or float, the TIFF file will contain the
minimum and maximum value for the data in the file.  When a TIFF stack is
created, each
image will have the same overall minimum and maximum, rather than values
specific to that image.  This way, 3dmod will be able to read
in the data with proper scaling.  However, Photoshop pays no attention to
these values when displaying integer data, so when the integer data have a
relatively small range, the image will initially appear black or very dark.
The simplest solution for this problem is to apply the scaling options
described next.
.P
When either the
.B -S
or the
.B -C
option is entered, integer and floating point data will be scaled to bytes and
any values outside the range of 0 to 255 will be truncated.  If the input data
is already in bytes (either byte data or RGB data), these options will cause
the data to be scaled, and values outside the range truncated.  To have the
range of the input data mapped into the full range of byte data, just enter
"-C 0,255".  To have a subset of the input range mapped to 0 to 255, either
enter the limits of the subset of the range directly with the 
.B -S
option, or adjust the contrast in 3dmod(1) to give the desired expansion of
the dynamic range for that subset of the image data, and enter the contrast
settings withs the 
.B -C
option.
.P Output to JPEG or PNG files is selected by entering the
.B -j
or the
.B -p
option.  There are some restrictions in these cases.  An output stack cannot
be created, only a series of single-image files.  The type of compression
cannot be specified, but the quality or degree of compression can.  Tiling
cannot be specified.  Only byte and RGB output is available.  Integer and
floating point files are converted to byte based either on the minimum and maximum
densities in the input file or on the values entered with 
.B -S
or
.B -C.
In addition to the fact that JPEG images cannot be bigger than 65535 pixels in
X or Y, problems may be encountered with images much bigger than 1 gigapixel.
.P
Since IMOD is distributed with version 4 of the TIFF library, this program
will write files bigger than 4 GB in the BigTIFF format, and continue to write
smaller files in classical TIFF format.  
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -s
Create a single output file, a TIFF stack with all of
the sections in the input file.
.TP
.B -j
Produce JPEG files instead of TIFF files.  See above for the restrictions with
this kind of output.
.TP
.B -p
Produce PNG files instead of TIFF files.  See above for the restrictions.
.TP
.B -c \fIvalue\fR
Compress the data in TIFF files with the type of compression indicated.  The
most useful compression types are LZW (value 5), Zip or Deflate (value 8), and
JPEG (value 7).  For these types, the value can be given as a text string:
"lzw", "zip", or "jpeg".  These are available on all operating systems when
running with the TIFF libraries distributed with IMOD.  On Linux, see 
/usr/include/tiff.h for other numeric
values that can be tried; some of these will work, depending on the data type.
Also note that JPEG compression is not available with 16-bit data.
.TP
.B -q \fIvalue\fR
Set the quality for JPEG or ZIP compression (ZIP compression is used in PNG
output).  For JPEG, the quality ranges from
0 to 100 with a default of 75; higher numbers preserve more information but
with less compression.  For ZIP/PNG, which is a lossless compression, the quality
factor ranges from 1 to 9 with a default of 6 and specifies a tradeoff between
speed and amount of compression.  Higher numbers giving somewhat more
compression for more computational time.  Lower numbers give somewhat less
compression with potentially much less computational time.
.TP
.B -S \fImin,min\fR
Specify an initial intensity scaling that will scale "min" to 0 and "max" to
255, just as is achieved with the 
.B -s
options to 3dmod(1) and mrcbyte(1).  
.TP
.B -C \fIblack,white\fR
Specify intensity scaling to match the scaling achieved with the given
black and white contrast settings in 3dmod(1), with the -c option to
mrcbyte(1), or the "-contrast" option to newstack.  If both
.B -S
and
.B -C
are entered, the final scaling will be the product of these two scalings.
If
.B -S
is entered alone, the black/white values are 0/255 (no scaling for contrast).
If
.B -C
is entered alone, the initial scaling will be from the minimum in the input
file to 0, and from the maximum in the file to 255.  If you have integer data
and you want to convert it to bytes, you will generally want to apply some
scaling with black/white values to preserve the dynamic range of the data of
interest.
.TP
.B -z \fImin,max\fR
 Starting and ending Z slices in file to output, numbered from 0.
.TO
.B -i \fIvalue\fR
Initial file number.  The default is the number of the first Z slice output,
where Z is numbered from 0.
.B -r \fIvalue\fR
Set the resolution setting of the output file in dots per inch to the given
value.
.B -P
Use the pixel spacing in the MRC file header to set the resolution in
the output file.  The resolution will be set in dots per inch and will
typically be a very large number, but this value allows the pixel spacing to
be recovered if the file is converted back with Tif2mrc(1).
.TP
.B -T \fIxsize,ysize\fR or \fIsize\fR
Organize output data in tiles instead of strips, which can allow faster access
to subareas of very large images.  Enter one number for the tile size in both
dimensions, or two numbers to specify a different size in X and Y.  The TIFF
library requires that all tiles be the same size, which means that the image
file will be padded so that tiles on the bottom and right sides have
the same sizes as the rest.  The program will pick an actual tile size near
the entered number that is a multiple of 16 and that minimizes the amount of
padding required.
.TP
.B -t \fIvalue\fR
Set the criterion for processing each image in strips to the given value in
megabytes (fractional values are allowed).  Whole images will be 
read in, processed, and saved as a unit if they are less than this criterion
(default 100 MB).  Above the criterion, images will be read, processed, and
saved in strips, with much lower memory requirements.
.TP
.B -o
Use old IMOD code instead of libtiff for writing the files (for testing
purposes).
.SH AUTHORS
Jim Kremer, David Mastronarde
.SH SEE ALSO
clip, newstack
.SH BUGS
Complex and long integer data modes are not supported.

Email bug reports to mast@colorado.edu.
