.na
.nh
.TH mrcv 1 2.00 BL3DEMC
.SH NAME
mrcv \- View an MRC Image stack or command file.
.SH SYNOPSIS
mrcv [options] <input filename>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
mrcv allows one to view a 3-dimesional mrc file.  It also
allows one to zoom, pan and resize the viewing window by using
the keyboard commands given below.
A text command file can also be used to make presentations
using mrcv. See mrcv batch command man page. (mrcv.5)

The  input file is a mrc file in unix format or a script used to
execute a series of commands.  Use mrcx to convert
vax vms mrc files to unix ones.

.SS Options
.TP
.B -r
Resize data before viewing.  The user will be prompted
for min xyz and max xyz when the resize option is
selected. This option works only on mrc byte data.
.TP
.B -x <min,max>
.PD 0
.TP
.B -y <min,max>
.TP
.B -z <min[,max]>
.PD
The 
.B -x, -y 
and 
.B -z 
options can be used to load in a sub-area
of the original image.  The offsets are saved in the model 
so if a different area is loaded the model is automaticly
transformed to match the new sub area. 
.TP
.B -c <value>
The 
.B -c
option selects a starting color table used for displaying
image data.  The default start value
is 256 and mrcv uses 256 indices in the colormap
Lower colormap values are used by the system and
should be avoided. 
.TP
.B -q
Be quiet, No output to standard out.
.TP
.B -v
Be verbose, print lots of information to standard out.
.TP
.B -f
Opens up a full screen video.
.TP
.B -n
Opens up a NTSC video window.
.TP
.B -s <scale value>
Scale coordinates by scale value when using mrcv in batch mode.
(See mrcv.5)
.TP
.B -o <x> <y>
Translate coordinates by x and y when using mrcv in batch mode.
(See mrcv.5)

.SH Keyboard Commands:
.nf

Arrows          Translate image.
Page Down       Previous z image.
Page Up         Next z image.
Home            Go to first image.
End             Go to last image.

F1              Decrease black level.
F2              Increase black level.
F3              Decrease white level.
F4              Increase white level.

- / =           Decrease / Increase Zoom.
b / n           Decrease / Increase Brightness.
c / v           Decrease / Increase Contrast.
. / ,           Faster / Slower frame rate.
  m             Toggle movie on/off.
  r             Redraw Screen.
  p             Toggle pointer on/off.

  o             Print info to standard output.
  ?             Print help to stardard output.
  q             Quit Program.
.fi

.SH AUTHOR
Jim Kremer 
.SH SEE ALSO
mrcv(5), mrcx(1)
.SH BUGS
mrcv will only run on SGI machines with 24 bit graphics.

The colormap won't change unless the pointer is moved inside of
the mrcv window.

Email bug reports to mast@colorado.edu.
