.na
.nh
.TH mtdetect 1 4.6.34 BL3DEMC
.SH NAME
mtdetect - detect circularly symmetric features
.SH SYNOPSIS
mtdetect
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program is a companion to Mtteach, the interactive program for
defining a discriminant analysis for feature detection.  On each
section, it follows the procedures of that program: it looks at
either single pixels or sums of pixels within circular windows,
seeking points with values beyond a threshold value, then applies
the discriminant function derived in Mtteach to classify the points
as features or non-features.  However, it also reads in the teaching
points used by MTTEACH and uses them, as well as the points
identified by the procedure just described, as a basis for searching
from one section to the next for additional points.  On the first
pass through the sections, it applies the procedure just described,
then it examines the vicinity of known points on adjacent sections.
For each such position, it looks for points within a specified
radius that have values greater than a relaxed threshold, and forms
discriminant scores for those points; if there are points with
scores better than the criterion (which may be relaxed by a
specified amount), then the best such point is taken as a new
feature point. On a second pass through the sections, it does only
the checking from section to section.  If the images being examined
are unaligned but an alignment is available, one can enter a file of
g transforms to improve the section-to-section correspondence for
the search.
.P
ENTRIES to the program:
.P
.nf
Image file name
Name of file of piece coordinates if image is a montage, otherwise
   Return
Name of file of teaching points
Name of output file for list of detected points
Name of file of discriminant analysis parameters and solutions
   produced by MTTEACH
Name of file of g transforms that align the whole data stack, or
   Return if none is available
.fi
.P
IF you enter a file of g transforms, enter 4 lines:
   0 if images are unaligned, or 1 if images are aligned via these
      transforms
   0 if teaching points were picked on unaligned images, or 1 if
      points were picked on aligned images
   0 to output points that would match unaligned images, or 1 to
      output points that match aligned images
   X and Y center coordinates of the transforms, or / to take the
      default of the center coordinates of the image file
.P
Minimum distance between centers of adjacent features
.P
Radius to search around the position of a feature for features in
   adjacent sections
.P
Amount to relax criterion discriminant score for the search in
   adjacent sections.  This is expressed as the number of standard
   deviations of the scores for true features; the program will first
   print out what the criterion is already in terms of the number of
   S.D.'s below the mean score for true features.
.P
Amount to relax threshold for choosing peaks in the search for
   features in adjacent sections.  Use the same units in which the
   threshold was specified in MTTEACH, i.e. an absolute or a relative
   value.
.P
Starting and ending section to analyze, or / to do all sections
.SH HISTORY
.nf
Written by David Mastronarde, May 1989
4/29/90 - add ability to set range of sections to analyze
.P
.fi
.SH BUGS
Email bug reports to mast@colorado.edu.
