.na
.nh
.TH mtmodel 1 4.6.34 BL3DEMC
.SH NAME
mtmodel - to build a MT model out of individual points
.SH SYNOPSIS
mtmodel
.SH DESCRIPTION
Mtmodel builds a model using a list of unconnected points.
It links points from one section to the next by considering each
point and seeing if the x-y coordinates are within a certain radius
of a point in the next section.  It can first do a scan through the
points with a narrow radius, then further scans with progressively
bigger radii (ignoring points that are already matched in a previous
scan).  By default, all objects will be given color 250 (red), but
one can have objects colored in a cycle of colors or coded for their
length and termination.
.P
One can add the points in the list to an existing model if desired.
Simply enter the name of this model file as the first entry in the
program.  The points at the ends of existing objects will be examined
first for their possible connections to new points.  Any new points
within a specified number of pixels of the existing points will be
discarded.  The color and other attributes of the objects in the
existing model will remain unchanged.
.P
ENTRIES:
.P
Name of file with old model to extend, or Return if none
.P
IF you are extending a model, next enter the minimum distance to
   allow between a new point and a point in the existing model.
.P
Name of point list file
Name of new model file to create
.P
Radius to search for matching points in first scan, radius to search
   in last scan, number of scans
.P
1 to use colors to code for the size of objects and whether they
   start at the beginning or end of the data stack
.P
IF you specify 1, next enter the minimum object length which should
   be coded with the colors for "long" objects
.P
1 to change the default colors.
.P
IF you enter 1 here, next specify a list of colors from 247 to 255.
   Ranges (e.g. 250-253) may be entered.
   If you are not coding for object length/endpoints, then the
   default is to color every object red.  In this case, if you change
   the default, colors will be assigned to objects by cycling
   repeatedly through the list that you enter.
   If you are coding for colors, the default color list, and the
   order in which colors should be respecified in the list, is:
.P
.nf
single point=magenta
points in every section = white
long from beginning section = orange
short from beginning section = red
long from end section = blue
short from end section = light blue (cyan)
long in middle only = green
short in middle only = yellow
.fi
.P
.P
Minimum number of connected points required to make an object in the
   output model.  Points that would conenct into objects smaller than
   this minimum number will be discarded.
.P
Finally, if there are gaps in the progression of Z values in the list
   of points, the program will tell you how many gaps.  Enter 1 to
   connect points across the gaps; otherwise all objects will end at
   the gaps.
.SH HISTORY
.nf
Written by David Mastronarde, 9/8/88
.fi
.SH BUGS
Email bug reports to mast@colorado.edu.
