.na
.nh
.TH nad_eed_3d 1 3.5.2 BL3DEMC
.SH NAME
nad_eed_3d \- Nonlinear anisotropic diffusion, edge enhancing, in 3D
.SH SYNOPSIS
nad_eed_3d  [options]  input_file  output_file
.SH DESCRIPTION
nad_eed_3d is Frangakis and Hegerl's 3D anisotropic diffusion program with
edge-enhancing diffusion only (see Frangakis, A., and Hegerl, R., 2001.
"Noise reduction in electron tomographic reconstructions using nonlinear
anisotropic diffusion." J. Struct. Biol. 135: 239-205).  In addition to options
to control the algorithm itself, this version provides some options to make
it easier to explore the effects of different parameters.
.P
The program requires ~36 times as much memory as the number of voxels in the
input file.  To process a large volume, place the command line needed to
run the program into a command file and use chunksetup(1) to obtain command
files to process the volume in chunks.  Determine the maximum number of
megabytes of memory that you want this processing to require, and divide by 36
to obtain the value to enter with the
.B -m
option to chunksetup.  See the example below.
.P
Finding the right parameters for anisotropic diffusion can be difficult.  To
adjust parameters, first clip out a small subvolume, e.g., 100x100x30 pixels,
with typical features of interest.  One strategy is to look at a restricted
range of iterations, such as 5-10 or possibly 5-15, and find the K value that
gives the desired result.  A very wide range of K needs to be explored,
perhaps from .02 to 5 times the standard deviation of the data.  For typical
byte data this might be a range of 0.4 to 100.  The range should thus be
explored in two stages.  In the first stage, you might try K values of 0.4,
1.6, 6.4, 26, 102, then look at the results as described below.  When you see
that the desired K value falls in one of these intervals, then try 5 K values
to fill in the interval with finer steps, such as 2.4, 3.2, 4.0, 4.8, and 5.6
for the interval from 1.6 and 6.4.  Once you have chosen your parameters, you
can process the whole volume.
.P
The eTomo program contains an
interface for extracting a subvolume, testing different K values and iteration
numbers, and running the diffusion on a full volume.  From the File menu,
select "New Parallel Process" then press the "Nonlinear Anisotropic Diffusion" button.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -k \fIvalue\fR
The K value (sometimes referred to as lambda).  The ratio
of the local image gradient to K is used to determine whether density will
diffuse isotropically or primarily in the direction of least density
variation (along edges).  Lower K values will preserve more edges; higher K
values will give more isotropic smoothing.
.TP
.B -n \fIvalue\fR
The number of iterations.  The higher the number of iterations, the smoother
the result.
.TP
.B -i \fIlist\fR
A list of iterations at which output should be written to a file (ranges such
as 1-3,5,8 or allowed).  If such a list is entered, the 
.B -n
option is ignored.  By default, the entire volume will be written at each
listed iteration, with the filename outfile_file-nnn, where output_file is the
name entered on the command line, and nnn is the number of iterations, with
leading zeros as needed to give three digits.  However, if the 
.B -o
option is entered, a single slice will be written at each of the specified
iterations, all into the same output file.
.TP
.B -o \fIvalue\fR
Single slice to output (numbered from 1).  This option is useful when
adjusting parameters if you can
judge the performance by looking at just one slice.  It will not make the
program do the computation on only one slice; it will still operate on the
whole input volume.
.TP
.B -m \fIvalue\fR
Mode for output file: 0 for byte, 1 for integer, 2 for real, or 6 for unsigned
integer.  By default, the
output file will have the same mode as the input file.  This works for byte
data because densities will never
become more extreme than in the original volume.  However, if you have byte
input data with a low
dynamic range, you may need to specify real output to avoid
seeing discrete density levels in the smoothed regions.
.TP
.B -s \fIvalue\fR
Sigma value for smoothing or averaging the structure tensor, which might
give a more accurate estimate of the direction of an edge.  The default is 0
for no smoothing.
.TP
.B -t \fIvalue\fR
The time step.  The product of the time step and the number of iterations
determines the amount of diffusion.  The diffusion will run faster with a
higher time step but may become unstable.
.TP
.B -P
Print process ID to standard error.
.SH EXAMPLES
To get a set of volumes, one at every third iteration, enter:
   nad_eed_3d -i 3,6,9,12,15,18,21 -k 1.2 tomo.rec tomo.nad

This will produce tomo.nad-003, tomo.nad-006, etc.  They can be
visualized with:
   3dmod tomo.nad-*

To get a single file with one slice, say slice 16, from every iteration from
5 to 15, enter:
   nad_eed_3d -i 5-15 -k 1.2 -o 16 tomo.rec tomo.nad-1.2

To get a series of such files at different K values, just repeat the above
command, or (under tcsh) enter:
   foreach i (0.6 0.8 1.0 1.2 1.4 1.6)
   nad_eed_3d -i 5-15 -k $i -o 16 tomo.rec tomo.nad-$i    
   end

This will produce tomo.nad-0.6, tomo.nad-0.8, etc., which can be
visualized with:
   3dmod tomo.nad-*.*

If your file is large (e.g., > 10 megavoxels), and you have determined 
your optimal parameters, say 15 iterations with a K of 1.3, then prepare 
a command file, e.g., nad.com, with the line:
   $nad_eed_3d -k 1.3 -n 15 INPUTFILE OUTPUTFILE
.br
(Do not indent the line; the $ must be the first character on the
line.  Also, do not substitute your input and output files, the command file
really should say INPUTFILE and OUTPUTFILE.)

Then enter:
   chunksetup -m 10 nad.com tomo.rec tomo.nad

If you are doing more than 8 iterations, you should increase the overlap
between chunks by adding the option
"-p #" where "#" is the number of iterations; this will reduce the effects
of cutting the volume into chunks to a minor level.  Overlap of 4 times the 
number of iterations is needed to eliminate these effects but this could
increase chunk sizes substantially.

The Chunksetup command with option "-m 10" will produce command files in which
each run of the program will require less than 360 MB of memory (use a
different amount to allow for more memory).  On a single processor machine,
run these with:
   subm nad-all

If multiple machines or processors are available, run in parallel with:
   processchunks list_of_machines nad
.br
or just
   processchunks # nad
.br
to run with # processors on the local machine.
.SH FILES
If an output file already exists, it will be made a backup file by adding ~
to its name.
.SH AUTHORS
Achilleas Frangakis and Reiner Hegerl (IMOD modifications by David 
Mastronarde).
The program is copyright Max-Planck-Institut for Biochemistry, Martinsried, 
Germany.
.SH SEE ALSO
chunksetup(1), processchunks(1), 3dmod(1)
.SH BUGS
Email bug reports to mast@colorado.edu.
