.na
.nh
.TH patchcrawl3d 1 2.50 BL3DEMC
.SH NAME
patchcrawl3d \- Search for displacements between local patches from two volumes
.SH SYNOPSIS
patchcrawl3d xsize ysize zsize nx ny nz xlo xhi ylo yhi \\
        zlo zhi max_shift filea fileb output_file \\
        [transform_file original_fileb borders_in_b] [boundary_model]
.SH DESCRIPTION
patchcrawl3d will determine the 3-D displacement between the two image volumes
in filea and fileb, at a regular array of positions.  It computes border sizes
from the lower and upper coordinates entered as arguments, optionally
adjusting these borders to account for transformations applied to obtain fileb.
It then runs the program corrsearch3d to determine the displacement 
of each patch in fileb relative to the patch in filea.

The program places into output_file an initial line with the total number of 
patches, then
one line for each patch, containing the X, Y, and Z coordinates of the patch 
and the displacement between the two files in X, Y, and Z.

.SH ARGUMENTS
The size of the patches in X, Y, and Z is set by the arguments xsize, ysize, 
and zsize.

The number of patches in X, Y, and Z is set by the arguments nx, ny, and nz.

The lower and upper limits of the region from which patches will be extracted 
are set by xlo and xhi in X, ylo and yhi in Y, and zlo and zhi in Z.  

The max_shift argument specifies the maximum displacement that will be found
by local searching in corrsearch3d; if the search does not yield a correlation
peak within this limit, then onepatchcorr will be called to find the 
displacement by FFT-based cross-correlation.

The region to be analyzed can be limited further if fileb was transformed from
an original volume and appreciably shifted by that transformation.  If the
optional arguments transform_file, original_fileb, and borders_in_b are
included, then the
limits of the region for patches will be adjusted to exclude domains in fileb
that back-transform to coordinates
outside the bounds of the original fileb, or too close to the borders of
this file.  The borders_in_b argument should consist of four numbers
separated by commas, giving the size of the border to exclude on the lower 
and upper sides in X and the upper and lower sides in Z.

A final optional argument can be used to indicate a model file boundary_model
with boundary contours specifying which patches to analyze.  
This model can be quite simple, consisting of
just a single contour enclosing the region where patches are
generally good.  This contour can be drawn in any Z plane of the
flipped tomogram.  However, if the good region changes through the
depth of the tomogram, you can draw contours at several Z levels.
If you have two layers of patches, draw two contours, one near the
top and one near the bottom of the tomogram; if you have three
layers, add another contour in the middle, etc.  For a given patch,
the program will find the contour at the nearest Z level and use
that one to determine whether to include the patch.

.SH HISTORY
Patchcrawl3d, Corrsearch3d, and Onepatchcorr replace Patchcorr3d.  The latter
program used FFT-based 3-D cross-correlation at each patch position.  Computing
the correlation directly at each displacement and searching for a local
peak in the correlation is much faster when the
approximate displacement is already known.  Patchcrawl3d is written in
C-shell and is obsolete since Corrsearch3d can be run directly with PIP input.

.SH AUTHOR
David Mastronarde  <mast@colorado.edu>
.SH SEE ALSO
corrsearch3d(1), onepatchcorr(1), patchcorr3d(1)
