.na
.nh
.TH processchunks 1 3.2.22 BL3DEMC
.SH NAME
processchunks \- Run command files in parallel on multiple processors
.SH SYNOPSIS
processchunks [options] <machine list> <root name of command files>
.SH DESCRIPTION
processchunks will process a set of command files in parallel on multiple
machines or processors that have access to a common filesystem.  The command
files should be in the format runnable with Vmstocsh(1) (e.g., using subm)
and be named like files produced by Chunksetup(1).  Specifically, the files
for processing individual components should be named
rootname-001.com, rootname-002.com, etc., where "rootname" is the root name
of the command files, entered as the last command line argument.  Each
file must end with the line
.br
$echo CHUNK DONE
.br
so that Processchunks can monitor for successful completion.  If the command
files create temporary files, they must be named uniquely, such as by ending
their names in .$$ and placing them in /usr/tmp.  (See Chunksetup(1) for an
alternative using hostnames).  The temporary files should be removed by the
individual command files with statements like
.br
$if (-e /usr/tmp/tmpfil.$$) rm -f /usr/tmp/tmpfil.$$

In addition to the files for individual chunks, there must
also be a file, rootname-finish.com, for final assembly and cleanup.
There may also be a file, rootname-start.com, to perform initial
tasks.  If such a file exists, Processchunks will run this on the current
machine before starting to distribute the chunks.

It is also possible to execute groups of command files in parallel, then run
one command file when all of these are done, then go on to another group of
files in parallel.  This is done by adding "-sync" after the number for each
file to be run for synchronization.  The files should all still have unique,
sequential numbers.  For example, if the 10th and 20th files are named
rootname-010-sync.com and rootname-020-sync.com, then files 1 to 9 will be run
to completion in parallel, then rootname-010-sync.com will be run alone on the
local machine, then 11 to 19 will be run in parallel, then
rootname-020-sync.com will be run alone, then all remaining files will be run
in parallel.

The machine list provided on the command line should be a list of machine
names or IP address, separated by commas and with no embedded spaces.
Machines with multiple processors should be entered as many times as the
number of processors that you want to use.  The local machine on which you are
running Processchunks can be identified by its hostname or as "localhost"; in
either case the command will be run directly on the machine.  For all other
machines, the command will be run with ssh.  You must be set up to log into
each of the machines with ssh without having to enter a password.  Each
machine must have access to the current directory.  If the directory path
starts with "/localscratch" this will be replaced by "/scratch/hostname" where
"hostname" is the name of the current machine.  (This works for the scratch
filesystem at the BL3DEMC.)  For other situations, the 
.B
-w
option can be used to specify the path by which remote machines can access the
current directory.

If the environment variable IMOD_ALL_MACHINES is defined with a list of 
machines, you can enter 
"ALL" or "all" for the machine list to use all of these machines.

Processchunks first probes all of the machines to see if connections can be
established and to show you the first line of the "w" output on each machine.
This will also allow you to provide any one-time interactive confirmation
needed by ssh, such as when you first log in to the machine.
If the "w" command cannot be run on a machine, it is automatically removed
from the list.  After this probe, the program asks you to confirm that you
want to proceed with this list of machines (unless you use the 
.B -g
option to skip this confirmation).  Thus, you can simply run Processchunks
with a large list of machines, examine this output,
then exit and restart after eliminating machines with too much load.

After the confirmation, Processchunks starts jobs on all of the machines and
watches for completion.  Jobs are started with "nice".  When the job on a
machine finishes, that machine is given another job and the program reports
the total number of chunks done so far.  When a job appears to have failed,
the job is started again.  Initially the job may tend to be restarted on the
same machine where it failed, but near the end when there are other machines
free, it will be sent to another machine.

If you type Ctrl C, the program will give you four choices: killing any
running jobs and terminating, stopping after letting any running jobs finish,
attempting to restart with the current list of machines, or 
just continuing.
If you choose to terminate or restart, existing jobs will first be killed
to avoid having the same job running twice at the same time.  When you rerun
this program after stopping in this way, be sure to use the 
.B -r
option so that existing results will be retained.

.SS Options
.TP
.B -r
Resume processing and retain all existing log files.  The default is to 
remove all existing log files, run rootname-start.com if it exists, and
then run all of the individual command files.  With this option, the program
will not run rootname-finish.com and will not rerun any command files whose
corresponding log files end with "CHUNK DONE".
.TP
.B -g
Go start processing after probing the machines, without waiting for 
confirmation from the user.
.TP
.B -n <value>
Run jobs with "niceness" set to the given value, which can range from 0 for
no reduction in priority to 19 for maximum reduction.  The default nice value
is reported by the program's usage statement.
.TP
.B -w <path>
The full path for reaching the current directory on the remote machines.  This
entry is needed when working on a local disk whose mounted path on the other
machines is different from its path (as given by pwd) on the local machine.
.TP
.B -d <value>
Drop a machine from the list if it fails this number of times in a row.  The
default criterion is reported by the program's usage statement.
.TP
.B -e <value>
Quit if a chunk gives a processing error (as opposed to failing to start) this
number of times.  All running jobs will be killed.  The
default limit is reported by the program's usage statement.
.TP 
.B -P
Output process ID.
.SH FILES
Log files will be generated for all command files that are run.  The C-shell
script produced by Vmstocsh for rootname-nnn.com is saved to rootname-nnn.csh
and the process ID is saved to rootname-nnn.pid.  Both of these files are
removed after the command file exits.
.SH BUGS
The command for probing machine status and loads uses w, which is not in the
Cygwin install.  If your machine list includes Windows machines, either run 
with the
.B -g
and
.B -P
options, install the procps package, or make a link on each Windows machine,
such as:
   ln -s /usr/bin/users /usr/bin/w

.SH AUTHOR
David Mastronarde  <mast@colorado.edu>
.SH SEE ALSO
chunksetup(1), vmstocsh(1)
