.na
.nh
.TH queuechunk 1 3.10.18 BL3DEMC
.SH NAME
queuechunk \- Place a csh or python script file on a queue or kill a job
.SH SYNOPSIS
queuechunk [options]  root_name_of_script_file

.SH DESCRIPTION
Queuechunk will take a csh or python script file and submit it to a cluster queue,
and also allows such jobs to be removed from the queue.  It is designed to
perform these actions when it is
called by Processchunks(1) with csh files produced from IMOD command files
with Vmstocsh(1).  The script file will be deleted when the operation
finishes.  

The filesystem on which Queuechunk is run must be accessible from the cluster.

The script file must be named with the extension .csh.  The last argument of
the command to Queuechunk must be the root name of the script file, excluding
the extension .csh but including everything before the extension (-001, etc).
If the action is L to report a load average, this argument may be omitted.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -t \fItype\fR
Type of queue.  This option must be entered with the value of either pbs or
pbs-maui (for a PBS queue) or sge (for a Grid Engine queue).  The type
pbs-maui can be used if the queue software has been configured so that
   showq -p queuename
.br
gives output for the processors assigned to that queue
of the form
     0 Active Jobs       0 of   40 Processors Active (0.00%)
.TP
.B -q \fIname\fR
Name of queue to submit to.  This option must entered if the queue type is
pbs-maui.
.TP
.B -h \fIname\fR
Name of the head node.  When this option is entered, the qsub, qstat, and qdel
operations are run via ssh to the head node.  It is necessary to have 
passwordless access between machines for this to work.
.TP
.B -w \fIdir\fR
Name of the current working directory, as it must be used by the machine
running the job.  If this name contains spaces, they should be escaped
with backslashes.  The default is the current directory name.
.TP
.B -a \fIaction\fR
The action to be performed:
   R  -  Run the job by placing it on the queue
   S  -  Run the job on the queue but synchronously, waiting until it is done
   K  -  Kill the job unconditionally
   P  -  Delete the job if it has not started yet (pause)
   L  -  Report a load average

.SS Specifications
Here are the essential features of this script, which would have to replicated
by any program to be run from Processchunks(1).  In order to work from eTomo
as well, the script mush be in bash.

The program must accept the 
.B -w
option with a working directory name.

The program must accept the 
.B -a
option with at least the four actions, R, S, K, and P.  For running from
eTomo, the program must also respond to the L action with
either NA for no information, or one or more values separated by commas.

A secondary script file should be created to submit to the queue, with the
name rootname.job.  It should be prepared to deal with a script file named
either rootname.csh or rootname.py.  It should run rootname.csh with "csh -ef"
or rootname.py with "python -u" and end by deleting the rootname.csh or
rootname.py file.  The .job file will be cleaned up by Processchunks.

Output from the queue when the job is submitted should be placed into a file
named rootname.qid.  This file will also be cleaned up by Processchunks.

When a job is run with the S action, the program must not return until the job
is finished, and should exit with an error status if the job failed.
Queuechunk does this by submitting to the queue, but as an alternative,
the .csh or .py file could be run on the local host with "csh -ef" or 
"python -u".

.SH FILES
The program creates a script file named rootname.job and places queue
submission output into a file named rootname.qid.  The job script deletes the
rootname.csh file upon completion.

.SH AUTHOR
David Mastronarde  <mast@colorado.edu>
.SH SEE ALSO
processchunks(1), vmstocsh(1)

