.na
.nh
.TH recombine 1 2.40 BL3DEMC
.SH NAME
recombine \- Recombine an MRC file disassembled with splitmrc
.SH SYNOPSIS
recombine  [-d directory]  split_list_file
.SH DESCRIPTION
recombine will reassemble an MRC image file that has been broken into
pieces with splitmrc.  It will prompt for a new CD to be inserted if
necessary, make temporary copies of the files from each CD, and
combine those copies to restore the original image file.  The temporary
files are then deleted.

If the 
.B -d
option is used, the temporary copies will be placed in the specified
directory.  Otherwise, they will be placed in the current directory.  The 
reassembled file will be placed in the current directory.

The CD with the listing file (filename.slist) on it should be inserted
before invoking
the program.  The program then operates interactively.  It will first
ask for a command to be entered for ejecting the CD.  If you do not enter
a command, you will have to eject the CD through another window whenever 
it is time to change CDs.  For each component file, the program then asks
for the directory where the file is to be found.  You can simply type Return 
to accept the default, which will be the last directory accessed.
.SH FILES
If the output file already exists, a backup
of the original is created with the ~ extension.  The format of the listing
file happens to be the same as a file for specifying multiple input files
to Newstack.
.SH AUTHOR
David Mastronarde  <mast@colorado.edu>
.SH SEE ALSO
splitmrc(1), newstack(1)
