.na
.nh
.TH sirtsetup 1 3.10.15 BL3DEMC
.SH NAME
sirtsetup \- Produce multiple command files for iterative reconstruction
.SH SYNOPSIS
sirtsetup [options] <Tilt command file>
.SH DESCRIPTION
Sirtsetup sets up command files to do a form of Simultaneous Iterative
Reconstruction Technique (SIRT) using backprojection and reprojection with the
Tilt(1) program.  Because reprojection is done with Tilt(1) and not
Xyzproj(1), the reconstruction can include options such as local alignments
and Z factors.
The SIRT uses the following scheme:
  1) An initial reconstruction is computed, using a filter function that is
either flat or a mixture of flat and R-weighted.
  2) The reconstruction is reprojected with Tilt(1).
  3) The original projections are subtracted from these reprojections.
  4) This reprojection difference is backprojected with a flat filter function
and appropriate scaling to distribute differences among the pixels along a
ray.
  5) The error reconstruction is subtracted from the initial reconstruction.

To iterate, steps 2 through 5 are repeated with the original reconstruction
replaced by the corrected reconstruction created in step 5.  The
reconstructions are named setname.srec00, setname.srec01, etc.  Once some of
these reconstructions exist, it is easy to
do additional iterations simply by running this script again.

Sirtsetup is meant to be used with a command file for running Tilt(1) that has
all of the entries produced when running through eTomo.  There is one main
restriction on this file.  The reconstruction must be the
same size in X and Y as the aligned stack; i.e., SLICE and WIDTH entries are
not allowed.  This means that if you want to do a trial reconstruction on a
subarea, you need to make the aligned stack smaller, either by copying it to a
smaller size with Newstack(1) or by modifying the command used to make it in
newst.com or blend.com.  In addition, you need to change the SUBSETSTART entry
in the tilt command file to indicate the starting coordinates of this subarea.
Typically the starting coordinate would be (full size - trimmed size) / 2.
For example, if the original size of the aligned stack would be 2048x2048 and
you make a 512x512 subarea, the SUBSETSTART entry would be 768 768.  The
SUBSETSTART entry must be in unbinned pixels, if binning was used.  The
FULLIMAGESIZE entry would stay the same.  These changes are all handled when
making a subset aligned stack in eTomo.

If the tilt command file takes the log of the projection data, then the
starting command file will use Densnorm(1) to create a new stack with the
logarithm of the projections.  This log stack will be used in all of the
operations listed above.

If you are not taking the log, you may still want to scale the projection data
to provide a mass normalization.  You can do this with Densnorm(1).  If you
just want a 
relative normalization to compensate for different exposures, you have two
choices: 1) Use Densnorm(1) to create a normalized stack, then either rename
it to the aligned stack name or modify the
input file name in the tilt command file.  2) Use Densnorm(1) to create a file
with weighting factors, and add a WeightFile entry to the tilt command file.
If you want an absolute normalization so that you can experiment with
constraining the data to be positive or negative, then you need to create a
normalized stack and either rename
it to the aligned stack name or change the input file name in the command
file.
If you use Densnorm(1) to normalize the data absolutely, they will be negative
values, in which case the 
.B -zn
option would be used to constrain the reconstruction to negative values.

If the name of the command file is tiltroot.com, this script produces files
named tiltroot_sirt-*.com.  These files can be run from the command line with
   processchunks machine_list tiltroot_sirt
.br
or from the parallel processing interface in eTomo.

Each of the log files from performing operation 5 above uses "clip stat" to
get statistics from
a central area of 10 slices from the difference reconstruction.  The summary
values from these statistics are gathered at the end of the
tiltroot_sirt-finish.log file.  The last two numbers on each line are the mean
and the standard deviation of the difference reconstruction.  The fall in the
latter value provides some indication of the progress of the iterations.

.SS Options
.TP
.B -nu <value>
Use this option to specify the number of machines that you expect to run
the command files on.  It is passed directly to Splittilt(1).  The default is
8.
.TP
.B -st
Do an initial reconstruction, numbered 00, even if it or later reconstructions
already exist.  The default is to iterate from the last existing
reconstruction.
.TP
.B -it <value>
Set the number of iterations to run; the default is 10.
.TP
.B -le <value>
Set the number of reconstructions to leave for examination; the default is 5.
.TP
.B -al
Always retain that number of reconstructions during the iterations, deleting 
older ones as new ones are made after the number is reached.  The default is
to retain only the reconstructions at the end of the set of iterations.
For example, if 15 iteration are being done and 5 are being retained, by
default only the reconstructions for iterations 11 through 15 would be saved.
With this option, there would be 5 retained reconstructions throughout the
processing.
.TP
.B -sc <min,max>
Scale each retained reconstruction to integers, with the minimum and maximum
in the reconstruction scaled to the given min and max values.  This will reduce
the space needed for retained reconstructions twofold, since by default each
reconstruction is generated as floating point.  This scaling is done on 
each file after it is superceded by a new iteration, so at the end of the 
processing the last reconstruction will still be floating point while the 
previous retained one will be scaled to integers.  The file setname.srec01 is
scaled to setname.sint01, etc.  To scale the final
reconstruction to integers in the same way, just run 
   newstack -sc min,max
.br
Values of -20000,20000 are recommended.
.TP
.B -tr <options>
Run Trimvol(1) on each retained reconstruction with the given options.  The
options must be enclosed in single or double quotes.  If the options specify
a scaling to bytes, this will reduce the space needed for retained
reconstructions by at least fourfold.  Each reconstruction to be retained is
trimmed as soon as it is made, so at the end of the processing the last
reconstruction exists in both floating point and trimmed form.  The file
setname.srec01 is trimmed to setname.strm01, etc.  The trimvol options can
be extracted from etomo_err.log after running the Trimvol step in eTomo.
.TP
.B -fl <value>
Set the fraction of a flat filter function to apply in the initial
reconstruction.  A flat function will be mixed with the standard radial filter
if the fraction is less than 1; this may given quicker convergence. 
The default is 1.0 for no mixing.
.TP
.B -ri <#,#>
Set the radius and sigma for the high-frequency cutoff of the radial filter in
the initial reconstruction.  The default is 0.5,0.05 for no filtering.
.TP
.B -rd <#,#>
Set the radius and sigma for the high-frequency cutoff of the radial filter in
the difference reconstructions.  The default is 0.5,0.05 for no filtering.
.TP
.B -zp
Constrain the reconstruction to positive values when subtracting the
difference reconstruction.  This option is appropriate only if the projection
data are normalized to be linearly proportional to projected mass density
and have positive values.
.TP
.B -zn
Constrain the reconstruction to negative values when subtracting the
difference reconstruction.  This option is appropriate only if the projection
data are normalized to be linearly proportional to projected mass density
and have negative values, as usually produced by Densnorm(1).
.TP
.B -ch
Write reconstructions in chunks to separate files and assemble these into a
single tomogram.
The default is to write directly to the output file.  This option should not be
needed with the protections provided by saving pixels at chunk boundaries into
separate files.
.TP
.B -pc
Write reprojections in chunks to separate files instead of directly to a single
output file.  The separate files are
assembled with Assemblevol(1).  This option should not be
needed with the protections provided by saving pixels at chunk boundaries into
separate files.
.TP
.B -bo <value>
Set the number of boundary pixels saved in separate files to the given value
when writing reconstructions or projections directly to a single output file.
The boundary pixels are rewritten to the output file after all chunks are
done.
.TP
.B -mo <value> 
Set the mode of the output files.  The default is 2 because scaling is
somewhat unpredictable, and values generally become much larger than in
standard R-weighted back-projection with Tilt(1).
.TP
.B -te <value>
Run in a test mode.  A value of 1 will leave the reprojection, projection
difference, and difference reconstruction at the end of every iteration.
A value of 2 will also leaves command and log files at the end of the 
processing.

.SH EXAMPLE
It is important that the reconstruction include all significant
material, including gold fiducials on both sides of a section, if any.  Thus,
in Tomogram Positioning, you need to draw contours that include all of the
fiducials.  Also note that you may need to set the X-axis tilt to zero for a
cryo data set; see BUGS below.

If the number of desired iterations is not known in advance, a subarea can be
reconstructed with the following steps:

Set the Size to output in Advanced mode in the Newstack/Blendmont section of
the Tomogram Generation panel in eTomo.  Generate the aligned stack.  Apply
2D filter if desired.

Turn off local alignments if they are on, to speed up this test.
Generate a reconstruction by standard back-projection.

Run sirtsetup with the needed number of iterations, and retaining as many
reconstructions as might be needed.  For example, if you are confident that at
least 15 iterations are needed and want to run 25, then use
   sirtsetup -it 25 -le 11 tilt.com

If storage space is an issue, also use "-sc -20000,20000".  However, loading
the retained reconstructions is simpler if you do not.

Run processchunks on "tilt_sirt".

Load the trial reconstructions into 3dmod
   3dmod -Y setname.srec* setname.rec
.br
for one axis of a dual axis set, or for a single axis set:
   3dmod -Y setname_full.srec* setname_full.rec

If you need to do more iterations, just rerun sirtsetup and process some more.
Once you have decided on the right number of iterations, you should remove or
rename all of the .srec and/or .sint files:
   rm -f setname*.srec* setname*.sint*

Remove the Size to output entry in eTomo and regenerate the aligned stack.
Apply 2D filter if desired.

Turn local alignments back on if they were turned off.
Generate a reconstruction by standard back-projection if desired.  If not, be
sure to press Postpone or Done in the Tomogram Generation panel to ensure that
tilt.com is saved.

Run sirtsetup with the needed number of iterations, and retaining only the
last, e.g.:
   sirtsetup -it 17 -le 1 tilt.com

If you still want to leave more than one iteration, then disk space becomes a
serious issue.  For a single axis data set, the best approach would be to run
Trimvol on the standard reconstruction.  Then extract the trimvol command
from etomo_err.log, e.g.:
    grep trimvol etomo_err.log
.br
Cut and paste the options (excluding "trimvol" and the file names) and enter
them within quotes, e.g.:
    sirtsetup -tr "-rx -f -z 30,160 -sz 50,99" -it 19 -le 5 tilt.com

Otherwise, especially for a dual-axis data set where it is not convenient to
run Trimvol in eTomo, use "-sc -20000,20000" instead of the "-tr" option.

.SH FILES
This procedure creates many large files, so it generally purges a previous
version of each file before a new one is created.  The files produced
during the procedure are:
.nf
setname.alilog10    Log of projections if the tilt command file contains
                         a LOG entry
setname.srec00      Initial reconstruction
setname.srecnn      Numbered iterative reconstructions
setname.proj        Reprojection of current reconstruction
setname.diff        Difference of reprojection and original projections
setname.drec        Correction reconstruction from projection difference
setname.sintnn      Iterative reconstruction scaled to integers
setname.strmnn      Iterative reconstruction run through Trimvol(1)
.fi

.SH AUTHOR
David Mastronarde  

.SH SEE ALSO
tilt(1), densnorm(1), newstack(1), subimage(1), processchunks(1),
splittilt(1), trimvol(1)

.SH BUGS
With several cryoEM data sets that included an X-axis
tilt, bad striping artifacts developed and increased through the iterations.
Setting the X-axis tilt to 0 eliminated this problem.

There is not yet a way to tell when to stop iterating.  Densities get
progressively farther off at the edges of the reconstruction.  There are low
frequency artifacts, particularly near edges.

Email bug reports to mast@colorado.edu.

