.na
.nh
.TH slashsplitconts 1 2.00 BL3DEMC
.SH NAME
slashsplitconts \- Inputs one or more objects then splits all contours in those objects
so they have no more than a specified number of points.
.SH SYNOPSIS
slashsplitconts -o <list> [options] <input_model> <output_model>
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program requires you to enter one list of objects with contours you want
split. By default, all contour will be split so that the final contours have only
1 point per contour, but you can easy change this with '-p' (eg: -p 10). This
program can be useful to split scattered point objects so there is only one
point per contour, but could eventually be expanded so that contours could be
split into fixed length increments.

.SS Options

.TP 
.B -o #/list
A list of "input objects" (eg: '1,4-5') containing contours/points that you wish
to sort/split into new objects. These objects can be of any type, and you must
list at least one.
.TP 
.B -p #
The number of points you want per contour (default value: 1)
.TP 
.B -w
Overwrite the objects listed in (-o) instead of adding new objects to the end.
It is recommended you only do this if you already have backups.
.TP 
.B -d
Duplicate the "last point" so that each last point touches the first point
of the next contour.
.TP 
.B -C
If the -s option is on, this option will mark any contour which are split open
as "open contours".


.SH AUTHORS
Andrew Noske and David Mastronarde
.SH SEE ALSO
imodfindbeads(1)
.SH BUGS
Email bug reports to mast@colorado.edu, and CC to andrew<DOT>noske<AT>gmail<DOT>com.
