.na
.nh
.TH splitcorrection 1
.SH NAME
splitcorrection \- Produce multiple command files for running ctfphaseflip in parallel
.SH SYNOPSIS
splitcorrection  [options]  ctfphaseflip_command_file
.SH DESCRIPTION
splitcorrection is a Python script that will take a command file for running
the ctfphaseflip(1) program and produce multiple command files that can be run
in parallel by Processchunks(1). 
.P
The only argument that the typical user needs to give is
.B -m
to specify the number of views to be processed by each chunk.
The default value is printed out by the program's usage
statement.  Thus, a typical command might be
.br
   splitcorrection -m 6 correction.com
.br
After giving this command, there will be a series of command files
correction-nnn.com to compute the chunks, a file correction-start.com,
and a file correction-finish.com to finish the
task and clean up intermediate files. One can then enter
.br
   processchunks machine_list correction
.br
where "machine_list" is the comma-separated list of machines to use, the
number of processors to use on a single machine.

.SH OPTIONS
When the program is invoked with no arguments, it gives a usage statement that
shows the default values for these options.
.TP
.B -m \fIvalue\fR
Set the number of views to be processed per chunk to the given value (the default is 5 ).
.TP
.B -b \fIvalue\fR
Number of pixels at each boundary between chunks to save in separate boundary
files (named setname-nnn.cbound) and rewrite to the output file in the
-finish.com file.  The default is 2048.  
.SH FILES
The finishing command file deletes all the
command and log files for the chunks after collecting minimun, maximum, and
mean density information from the log files.
.SH AUTHOR
David Mastronarde  <mast@colorado.edu>
.SH SEE ALSO
processchunks(1), ctfphaseflip(1) 
