.na
.nh
.TH splitmrc 1 2.40 BL3DEMC
.SH NAME
splitmrc \- Split an MRC file into CD-sized chucks
.SH SYNOPSIS
splitmrc [options] MRC_filename
.SH DESCRIPTION
splitmrc will split an MRC image file into multiple files of a limited size,
typically the size that will fit on a CD.  Although the resulting files are
all functional MRC files and could be recombined by hand, splitmrc creates
a file with information that allows the original file to be
recreated easily with the companion program, recombine.  This listing 
file has the name
of the original image image, with the extension ".slist" added to it.  The
images files have the original file name with ".s1", ".s2", etc., added to it.
If the original file does have to be recreated from CDs, it is most 
convenient (but not essential) if the .slist file is stored with the first 
image file.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -d \fIpathname\fR
Place the resulting files in the directory sepcified by "pathname".
.TP
.B -m \fIsize\fR
Make the maximum file size be the given number of megabytes (e.g. -m 650).
.TP
.B -b
Make all files except the last one be as big as possible.  With this option, 
which is the default, the last file may end up being rather small.
.TP
.B -e
Make all files equal in size, which will result in all of them being
smaller than the maximum size.
.SH FILES
The program creates image files with ".s1", ".s2", etc, added to the original
file name, and a listing file with ".slist" added to the original name.
If any of the output files already exist, a backup
of the original is created with the ~ extension.
.SH AUTHOR
David Mastronarde  <mast@colorado.edu>
.SH SEE ALSO
recombine(1), newstack(1)
