.na
.nh
.TH tapervoledge 1 4.6.34 BL3DEMC
.SH NAME
tapervoledge - to excise a subset of a volume, taper the edges, and pad
.SH SYNOPSIS
tapervoledge
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program will cut a subset out of an image volume, taper the
intensity down to the mean value at the edge of the volume over
a specified range of pixels, and embed this subset into a larger
volume with specified borders.  The resulting volume will have
dimensions suitable for taking the FFT.  As a special case, a single
X/Y plane may be excised and tapered at its edges.
.P
Inputs to the program:
.P
Name of input file
.P
Name of output file
.P
Dimensions of the block to cut out, in X, Y and Z.  The default is
the whole volume.
.P
The index coordinates (ix, iy, iz) of the center of the block.  The
default is the center of the input volume.
.P
The width of the borders, in X, Y, and Z, with which to pad the
image block.  Borders will be made larger as necessary to make the
output image size suitable for taking an FFT.  If the dimension being
excised in Z is 1, then padding must be zero in Z.
.P
The extent in X, Y, and Z over which to taper the image intensity
down to the mean at the edge.  For example, if an extent of 3 is
used for the X direction, the last three pixels on a line would be
attenuated toward the mean value by 1/4, 1/2, and 3/4.
.P
The program will stop with an error message if the subset or the
output image is too large, or if the subset is not entirely within
the input volume.
.SH HISTORY
.nf
  Written by David Mastronarde  7/22/97; 2/2/01: taper a single slice.
.fi
.SH BUGS
Email bug reports to mast@colorado.edu.
