.TH uitestaxisadoc 1 2.7 BL3DEMC
.na
.nh

.SH NAME
uitest-axis.adoc \- Description of an axis-level user interface test

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B etomo --names
.B $IMOD_UITEST_SOURCE/\fR[...\fB/\fR]\fIfile_name\fB.adoc\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
Uitest-axis autodocs contain a description of a test of a single axis in the Etomo user
interface.  Run \fBetomo\fR with the \fB--names\fR option to send field and button types and names
to \fBetomo_out.log\fR.
Any section type or attribute name not listed below will be ignored during testing.

Field names are converted from the field label.
Field names are converted to lower case and trimmed of external whitespace.
Parentheses and everything in them is ignored.  The first colon and everything after it is ignored.
Internal whitespace is converted to a dash.  Examples of conversions from field label to name:
.nf
Field label = "Single axis", Name = "single-axis"
Field label = "Backup directory:", Name = "backup-directory"
Field label = "Pixel size (nm):", Name = "pixel-size"
.fi

.SS Global Attributes

.TP
.B sleep = \fIsleep_length
Changes the current sleep level setting used with the section-level \fBsleep\fR attribute.
Also changes the default timeout setting used with \fBpopup\fR attribute.
One entry per file.  See Note 2.

.TP
.B testfrom = \fR[\fIDialog_name\fR]
Tells the test program to start at the Dialog Section called \fIDialog_name\fR.
Only one \fBtestfrom\fR can be used.
The attribute can be used to test part of a uitest axis autodoc,
in conjunction with \fBdatasetdir.keep\fR in the Test Section of the uitest autodoc.
If \fIDialog_name\fR is not used, the axis will not tested.

.TP
.B waitfor = \fIDialog_name
Causes the axis to wait for the other axis to complete the specified dialog.
Only one is allowed in Global Attributes.  Waitfor is ignored when there is only
one axis.  It Axis B should use a global \fBwaitfor\fR to wait for Axis A to
complete the Setup Tomogram Dailog.

.TP
.B verbose =
Causes the test program to print each name/value pair as it processes it.
One entry per file.

.TP
.B Version = 1.2
Required.  The latest version of the autodoc language.

.SS Sections

.TP
.B [Dialog = \fIDialog_name\fB]\fR
Required.  The Dialog section header.  Begins the Dialog section.
Causes the dialog to be displayed in Etomo (except for the
Setup Tomogram dialog).  Each Dialog section should contain the information to manipulate the
fields in the dialog.

When \fIDialog_name\fR = \fBSetup\fR:  Required for A axis uitest-axis autodocs.
The Setup Tomogram dialog.  This Dialog section is only valid in an A axis uitest-axis autodoc.
The dataset name in the Setup Tomogram dialog will be filled in automatically.

.TP
.B [function = \fIfunction_name\fB]
A section which is treated as a function.
When the function section is called (see the attribute \fBfunction\fR),
all the name/value pairs in the function section are executed.

.SS Section Attributes
Unless otherwise stated, attributes may be used in either of the section types
described above.

.TP
.B adoc = \fR[\fIfunction_location\fB.adoc\fR]
Sets the autodoc which will be used by the \fBfunction\fR attribute.
If the value is omitted, the \fBfunction\fR attribute will use the \fBuitestaxis\fR autodoc.
The default is the \fBuitestaxis\fR autodoc.

.TP
.B assert.\fR(\fBbn\fR|\fBcb\fR|\fBmb\fR|\fBrb\fR)\fB.\fIfield_name\fR[\fB.\fIindex\fR]\fB = \fR[\fB0\fR|\fB1\fR]
Uses JUnit assert functionality to assert that a JCheckBox (\fBcb\fR), JRadioButton (\fBrb\fR), or JToggleButton
(\fBbn\fR) named \fIfield_name\fR is selected (\fB1\fR) or not selected (\fB0\fR);
or, in the case of a mini-button, expanded or not expanded.
A blank value asserts that the button is not selected.  The JToggleButton has a darker color when
it is selected.  If the button is a JButton, this assert will always fail.
See Note 1.

.TP
.B assert.file.exists = \fIfile_name
Uses JUnit assert functionality to assert that a file exists.  The file is assumed to
be in the dataset directory.

.TP
.B assert.tf.\fIfield_name\fR[\fB.\fIindex\fR]\fB = \fR[\fItext\fR]
Uses JUnit assert functionality to assert that a JTextField named \fIfield_name\fR
contains the value
\fItext\fR.  A blank \fItext\fR value asserts that the JTextField is empty.
See Note 1.

.TP
.B assert.\fR(\fBbn\fR|\fBcb\fR|\fBmb\fR|\fBrb\fR|\fBtf\fR)\fB.\fIfield_name\fR[\fB.\fIindex\fR]\fB.enabled = \fR[\fB0\fR|\fB1\fR]
Uses JUnit assert functionality to assert that a button or field named \fIfield_name\fR is
enabled (\fB1\fR) or disabled (\fB0\fR).
A blank value asserts that the button or field is disabled.
See Note 1.

.TP
.B bn.\fIfield_name\fR[\fB.\fIindex\fR]\fB = \fR[\fB0\fR|\fB1\fR]
Used to click a button.  Clicks button named \fIfield_name\fR.  The button may be
either a JButton or a JToggleButton.
The value can be used to force the button to be either selected (\fB1\fR)
or not selected (\fB0\fR).  If the button matches the value, it will not be
pressed.  If the button is a JButton, the value will be ignored.
The test program will sleep for 100 milliseconds after the button is pressed.
See Note 1.

.TP
.B cb.\fIfield_name\fR[\fB.\fIindex\fR]\fB = \fR[\fB0\fR|\fB1\fR]
Used to check or uncheck a check box.  Selects a JCheckBox named \fIfield_name\fR.
The value can be used to force the check box to be either checked (\fB1\fR)
or unchecked (\fB0\fR).  If the check box matches the value, it will not be
changed.
See Note 1.

.TP
.B copy.file = \fIfile_name
Copy \fIfile_name\fR into the dataset directory.  The file will be copied from
the filedir value set in the global section of \fBuitest.adoc\fR.
\fIFile_name\fR should not contain expandable characters such as "*".
\fIFile_name\fR may contain two variables:  \fB%dataset\fR and \fB%axis\fR.

.TP
.B function = \fIfunction_name
Executes all the name/value pairs in a \fBfunction\fR section called \fIfunction_name\fR.
The \fBfunction\fR section must be located in the autodoc set by the most recent \fBadoc\fR attribute.

.TP
.B mb.\fIfield_name\fR[\fB.\fIindex\fR]\fB = \fR[\fB0\fR|\fB1\fR]
Used to click a mini-button - a small square button that
is used to change the amount of information a panel or column header displays.
The mini-button field name will be derived from the panel or column
header title and the type of the mini-button ("open", "advanced", or "more").
An "open" mini-button uses the symbols "+" and "-".
An "advance" mini-button uses the symbols "A" and "B".
A "more" mini-button uses the symbols ">" and "<".
The value (\fB1\fR) can be used to force the panel or column header controlled
by the mini-button to be expanded (open, advanced, or more).
The value (\fB0\fR) can be used to force the panel or column header to be contracted
(closed, basic, or less).
If the state of the panel or column header matches the value, the mini-button will not
be pressed.
See Note 1.

.TP
.B rb.\fIfield_name\fR[\fB.\fIindex\fR]\fB =
Used to select a radio button.  Selects a JRadioButton named \fIfield_name\fR.
See Note 1.

.TP
.B sleep = \fR[\fIsleep_length\fR]
Causes the test program to sleep for either \fIsleep_length\fR milliseconds, or the current
sleep length.  See Note 2.

.TP
.B sp.\fIfield_name\fR[\fB.\fIindex\fR]\fB = \fR(\fBup\fR|\fBdown\fR)
Used to spin a spinner.  Clicks the up or down arrow of a JSpinner named \fIfield_name\fR once.
See Note 1.

.TP
.B stop =
Used to stop testing of an axis before the end of the autodoc is reached.
Any attributes and sections following the \fBstop\fR attribute will be ignored.
If one axis is stopped, a \fBwaitfor\fR on the other axis for a dialog
that has not been completed will cause the other axis to stop.

.TP
.B tf.\fIfield_name\fR[\fB.\fIindex\fR]\fB = \fR[\fItext\fR]
Used to place text into a text field.  Places \fItext\fR in a JTextField called
\fIfield_name\fR.  If \fItext\fR is not used, blanks out the text field.
See Note 1.

.TP
.B tp.\fIfield_name\fB.\fItab_index\fB = 
Clicks a tab on a tabbed pane.  The field name of the tabbed pane is the name of the
first tab.  Clicks the tab specified by the \fItab_index\fR (index starts from
0).

.TP
.B waitfor = \fIDialog_name
Causes the axis to wait for the other axis to complete the specified dialog.
If the dialog is never completed, the test program will wait until it exceeds
the duration set in \fBuitest.adoc\fR and fails.

.TP
.B waitfor.popup.\fIfield_name\fB = \fIpopup_button_text
Causes the test program to wait for a popup dialog and then close it using \fIpopup_button_text\fR.
The popup field name is derived from the popup dialog title and can be found by running Etomo with
the "--names" option and bringing up the popup dialog.
If the popup dialog does not appear, the test program will wait until it exceeds
the duration set in \fBuitest.adoc\fR and fails.

.TP
.B waitfor.process = \fR(\fBdone\fR|\fBfailed\fR|\fBkilled\fR|\fBpaused\fR)
Causes the test program to wait for the progress bar to show "done", "failed,
"killed", or "paused".  If the
process never completes, the test program will wait until it exceeds
the duration set in \fBuitest.adoc\fR and fails.

.TP
.B %{\fIvariable_name\fB}
A variable which can be part of the value of a section-level attribute.
A variable can also be used as part of a \fIfield_name\fR.
Variables are defined using the \fBset\fR attribute of the ui test autodoc sections.
There are two variables that are set differently.
The value of %{axis} is set by the ui test \fBadoc\fR attribute.
The value of %{dataset} is set by the ui test \fBdataset\fR attribute.
See \fBman uitestadoc\fR, \fBassert\fR, \fBbn\fR, \fBcb\fR, \fBmb\fR, \fBrb\fR,
\fBsp\fR, \fBtf\fR, \fBtp\fR, and \fBwaitfor.popup\fR.

.TP
Note 1: \fIindex
\fIIndex\fR is only necessary when specifying a field where both the field type and the name are
duplicated on the same dialog.  The index starts at 0 and is based on the tab order of
fields in the dialog.  The default is 0.

.TP
Note 2: \fIsleep_length
The  \fIsleep_length\fR refers to
the number of milliseconds to sleep.
It is used with the section-level \fBsleep\fR attribute.
It defaults (in order) to the global-level \fBsleep\fR attribute,
the global-level \fBsleep\fR attribute in \fBuitest.adoc\fR,
or 1000 milliseconds.

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Sue Held.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright @ 2005 Boulder Laboratory for 3-Dimensional Electron Microscopy of
Cells (BL3DEM), University of Colorado.

.SH SEE ALSO
.B uitestadoc\fR(1), \fBpip\fR(1) \- Option Specifications in an Autodoc File.

