.TH uitest 1 2/4/2009 BL3DEMC
.na
.nh

.SH NAME
uitest - a script to run GUI tests against Etomo using JFCUnit

.SH SYNOPSIS
.P
.B scripts/uitest \fITest_Section_name
.P
.B make -f tests/uitest.make \fR[\fItarget\fR ...]
.P
.B etomo.uitest.JfcUnitTests

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBUitest\fR is a script that runs \fBJfcUnitTests\fR.  \fBJfcUnitTests\fR runs
the \fBetomo\fR application and interacts with it by using JfcUnit to grab
named GUI elements.  \fBEtomo\fR automatically names most of its GUI elements.
\fBJfcUnitTests\fR gets its instructions from a set of autodoc files which are
read sequentially.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
The IMOD environment that allows Etomo to be run must be in place.

.TP 4
.B IMOD_UITEST_DATA
Should be set to the directory where files that will be copied into a test
dataset are stored.

.TP 4
.B IMOD_UITEST_IMAGE_DATA
Should be set to the directory where images files that will be copied into a test
dataset are stored.

.TP 4
.B IMOD_UITEST_SOURCE
should be set the Etomo/tests directory.

.SS Used by the Uitest Script

.TP 4
.B IMOD_JUNIT_HOME
Should be set to the directory containing the JUnit jar file.

.TP 4
.B IMOD_JUNIT_JAR
Should be set to the name of the JUnit jar file.

.TP 4
.B IMOD_JFCUNIT_HOME
Should be set to the directory containing the JfcUnit jar file.

.TP 4
.B IMOD_JFCUNIT_JAR
Should be set to the name of the JfcUnit jar file.

.TP 4
.B IMOD_JAKARTA_REGEXP_HOME
Should be set to the directory containing the Jakarta regexp jar file.

.TP 4
.B IMOD_JAKARTA_REGEXP_JAR
Should be set to the Jakarta regexp jar file.

.SS Used in Uitest.make

.TP 4
.B IMOD_UITEST_SCRIPT
Should be set the directory containing uitest.

.SS Used by JfcUnitTests

.TP 4
.B IMOD_TEST_SECTION
Only needs to be set if \fBJfcUnitTests\fR is being run directly.  It should be
set to the name of \fBTest\fR section that will be run (see Section
Relationships below).

.SH FILES
.SS Autodocs

The main \fBuitest\fR autodoc file is \fBuitest.adoc\fR.  Test autodocs are
referred to by \fBuitest.adoc\fR.  Function autodocs are referred to by Test
autodocs.

.SH USAGE
.SS Section Relationships

The \fBuitest.adoc\fR file contains \fBTest\fR, \fBdataset\fR, and
\fBinterface\fR sections.  A \fBTest\fR section contains descriptions of tests
that will be run together.  A \fBTest\fR section refers to a single
\fBdataset\fR section for information on the dataset being tested.  Each
\fBdataset\fR section refers to one \fBinterface\fR section.  A \fBTest\fR
section also refers to at least one Test autodoc and specifies a section type to
be accessed in it.  Sections specified by a \fBTest\fR section are called Dialog
sections, and are accessed one after another.  Sections may also be called like
functions.  Subsections with a section type of \fBif\fR or \fBifnot\fR act as
simple if clauses.


.SS Testing
The TestRunner class picks a \fBTest\fR Section based on the
\fBIMOD_TEST_SECTION\fR environment variable (set by \fBuitest\fR).  Each
\fBTest\fR Section is associated with one dataset.  A list of autodocs are added
to the section using the \fBadoc\fR command.  Each autodoc is associated with
one Axis.  The \fBetomo.uitest.TestRunner\fR class runs a test on each autodoc
in turn, based on the order they appear in the \fBTest\fR Section.  Each test
will run until it starts to wait for a process, then it will return control to
\fBTestRunner\fR.  The \fBTestRunner\fR will keep running tests on each autodoc
in turn until all tests in the autodoc have been completed.  This allows
\fBuitest\fR to mimic the way a person might work with \fBEtomo\fR - moving from
one axis to another.


.SS Grammer

.TP 4
.I command
.I action \fB=\fR [\fIvalue\fR]
.RS 4

.P
.I action\fR[\fB.\fImodifier\fR]\fB.\fIfield \fB=\fR [\fIvalue\fR]

.P
.I action\fR[\fB.\fImodifier\fR]\fB.\fIfield.subcommand \fB=\fR [\fIvalue]

.P
.I action\fR[\fB.\fImodifier\fR]\fB.\fIsubject \fB=\fR [\fIvalue]

.P
.I action\fR[\fB.\fImodifier\fR]\fB.\fIsubject\fB.\fIfield \fB=\fR [\fIvalue]

.P
.I action\fR[\fB.\fImodifier\fR]\fB.\fIsubject\fB.\fIsubcommand \fB=\fR [\fIvalue]

.TP
.I field \fB=\fR [\fIvalue\fR]
A field command has an implied action; for instance the implied action for a
button (\fBbn\fR) is to push it.
.RE

.TP 4
.I subcommand
.RS

.P
.I subcommand_action\fR[\fB.\fImodifier\fR]\fB.\fIfield \fB=\fR [\fIvalue]

.P
.I subcommand_action\fR[\fB.\fImodifier\fR]\fB.\fIsubject \fB=\fR [\fIvalue]

.P
.I subcommand_action\fR[\fB.\fImodifier\fR]\fB.\fIsubject\fB.\fIfield \fB=\fR [\fIvalue]
.RE

.TP 4
.I action
.B assert\fR, \fBcopy\fR, \fBend\fR, \fBformat\fR, \fBif\fR, \fBgoto\fR, \fBopen\fR,
\fBreturn\fR, \fBrun\fR, \fBset\fR, \fBskipto\fR, \fBsleep\fR, \fBstart\fR, \fBtouch\fR,
\fBunset\fR, \fBuse\fR, \fBwait\fR, \fBwrite

.TP 4
.I subcommand_action
.B assert\fR, \fBreturn\fR, \fBrun\fR, \fBset\fR, \fBwait

.TP 4
.I modifier
.B always\fR, \fBcontains\fR, \fBdisabled\fR, \fBenabled\fR,
\fBequals\fR, \fBexists\fR, \fBge\fR, \fBkeep\fR, \fBle\fR, \fBnot\fR,
\fBnot-equals\fR, \fBnot-exists\fR, \fBsame\fR, \fBsingle\fR, \fBwait

.TP 4
.I subject
.I subject_type\fR[\fB.\fIsubject_name\fR][\fB.\fIaxis\fR]
.RS 4

.TP 4
.I subject_type
.B adoc\fR, \fBdataset\fR, \fBdebug\fR, \fBdialog\fR, \fBdir\fR, \fBfile\fR,
\fBfile-chooser\fR, \fBframe\fR, \fBfunction\fR, \fBindex\fR, \fBinterface\fR, \fBparam\fR, \fBpopup\fR, \fBprocess\fR, \fBsection\fR, \fBtest\fR, \fBtestdir\fR,
\fBvar

.TP 4
.I subject_name
Name of the subject.  May contain variables.  May not be \fBa\fR, \fBb\fR, an
\fIsubcommand_action\fR string, or a \fIfield\fR string.

.TP 4
.I axis
.B a \fRor \fBb\fR.  Default is single axis.
.RE

.TP 4
.I field
.I field_type\fB.\fIfield_name\fR[\fB.\fIindex\fR]
.RS 4

.P
.I field_type
.RS 4

.TP 4
.B bn
A button; the implied action is to press the button.

.TP 4
.B cb
A check box; the implied action is to check the check box.

.TP 4
.B cbb
A combo box; the implied action is to add an item to the combo box and select it.

.TP 4
.B mb
A mini-button; the implied action is to press the mini-button.

.TP 4
.B pnl
A panel; the implied action is to go to the panel.

.TP 4
.B sp
A spinner; the implied action is to either enter a number into the spinner's text
field or press one of its arrows.

.TP
.B tb
A tab; the implied action is to click on the tab.

.TP
.B tf
A text field; the implied action is to enter a string into the text field.
.RE

.TP 4
.I field_name
Name of the field.  May contain variables.  See Naming.

.TP 4
.I index
An integer.  Default: 0.  Used when multiples fields of the same type and name
are present on a panel.
.RE

.TP 4
.I value
May contain a single value or a list divided by "\fB|\fR".
May contain a directory, file name, process result, command line parameter,
button state, or field value.  See the \fBVariables\fR section.
.RS

.P
.I text

.P
.I number

.TP 4
.I boolean
Booleans are case insensitive
.br
.B 1
.br
.B 0
.br
.B t
.br
.B f
.br
.B true
.br
.B false
.br
.B y
.br
.B n
.br
.B yes
.br
.B no
.br
.B on
.br
.B off

.TP 4
.I mini-button_labels
.B +
.br
.B -
.br
.B A
.br
.B B
.br
.B >
.br
.B <

.TP 4
.I spinner_arrow
.B up
.br
.B down
.RE

.TP 4
Operators
.RS

.TP 4
.B |
List separator.  Only valid in values.  Whitespace surrounding separator is stripped.

.TP 4
\fB" "
Ignore variable operator.  Valid everywhere.

.TP 4
.B %{ }
Reference to a variable.  The current value of the variable is substituted.
Valid everywhere.

.TP 4
Precedence
\fB|\fR, \fB" "\fR, \fB%{ }
.RE

.SS Scope
Autodocs, sections, and subsections have scope.  Settings defined in a section
are in force in that section and in any sections or autodocs that are run from
that section.  So variables in a \fBTest\fR section are global for the entire
test.  Variables set in a \fBdataset\fR section also global for the entire test;
as if they where set in a  \fBTest\fR section.  The scope for settings in the
global section of an autodoc is all the sections in the autodoc and any sections
or autodocs that are run from them.

.SS Variables
Variable are created by the \fBset.var\fR command and removed by the
\fBunset.var\fR command.  They are refered to with the format
\fB%{\fIvariable_name\fB}\fR.  Variables set in \fBuitest.adoc\fR are global,
except for variables in the dataset that have axis a or b in the their subject;
these variables are global but limited to a single axis.
Variable references cannot exist inside of other variable references, but
variables references can be placed in variable values.

.P
To avoid variable substitution, use double quotes (\fB" "\fR).  The area inside
the quotes will no be changed and the quotes will be removed.

.TP 4
Examples:
.P
set.var.axisbob = robert%{axis}
.br
When the axis is b, %{axisbob} equals robertb.
.P
assert.contains.file=log%{axis}.txt|"%{axis} is a variable"
.br
When the axis is b, the assert statement becomes:
.br
assert.contains.file=logb.txt|%{axis} is a variable

.P
.B Built in variables
.RS 4

.TP 4
.B testdir
A global variable containing the test directory path, which is created when the
set.testdir command executed in a Test section.

.TP 4
.B testdir-name
A global variable containing the test directory name, which is created when the
set.testdir command executed in a Test section.

.TP 4
.B dataset
A global variable created when the set.var.dataset command is executed in a Test section.

.TP 4
.B keep-dataset-dir
A global variable created when the set.keep.dataset command is executed in a Test section.

.TP 4
.B axis
A variable created when a Test autodoc is executed.  It is global to the Test autodoc.
.RE

.SS Wildcards
"\fB*\fR" can be used to replace 0 or more characters in the \fIliteral_string\fR in
\fBassert.contains.file\fR.  "\fB*\fR" cannot match the end of the line.

.SS Relative paths
The "\fB/\fR" separator must always be used for relative file paths.
"\fB..\fR" can be used to describe a file that is not in a subdirectory
of the test directory.

.SS Waiting
The \fBwait\fR command creates a wait state in a tester and causes the tester to
wait until the situation specified in the \fBwait\fR command occurs.  If multiple
Dialog autodocs where specified in the Test section, the tester for the current
Dialog autodoc will cease testing and the tester for the next Dialog autodoc
will continue where it left off whenever there is a wait in the current tester.

.SS Naming
To name a field in \fBetomo\fR, its associated label is changed to all lower
case, one "-" is substituted for each space or contiguious group of spaces,
everything from ":" on is truncated, and strings in parenthesis are removed.
To see the field names in \fBetomo\fR, run \fBetomo\fR with the \fB--names\fR
option.  Panels with headers or boundary titles are named in the same way.  The
exceptions are the top-level panels for the frames, which are always called
\fBmain-frame\fR and \fBsub-frame\fR.  Popups are identified by their titles,
which are turned into names the same way a label is.

.TP 4
.B Naming buttons with symbol labels
Buttons labeled with single characters or symbols such as \fB>\fR, \fBB\fR, or
\fB+\fR are called mini-buttons (\fBmb\fR).  They are labeled with the name
taken from panel or text field they are associated with.  If there are multiple
buttons with the same name, for instance a \fB+\fR/\fB-\fR button and an
\fBA\fR/\fBB\fR button on the same dialog, use an \fBindex\fR for all but the first
one, going left to right.  The left-most mini-button has a default index of 0.

.TP 4
.B Indexing
Multiple fields of the same type and name can be referred to with an index.  The
index defaults to 0.

.SS Order
Commands are always read in the order they are written, so order is always
meaningful.  Don't use variables before setting them.  In the \fBTest\fR
sections, always set the test directory and the autodocs before setting the
dataset.  The only exception to this is the Interface Section, where order does
not count, except in its subsections.

.SS The B Axis
The B axis is tested in the \fBsub-frame\fR (the second window).  Tests will
automatically try to open their frame if an \fBopen.frame\fR command is placed
in the interface section that is being used.  If the frame can't be opened the
test will fail.

.SS UITest Autodoc
.B uitest.adoc

.TP 4
.B Test Section
.B [Test = \fItest_suite_name\fB]
.br
.I command
.br
 .
.br
 .
.br
 .

.RS 4
.P
Required.  Only valid in \fBuitest.adoc\fR.  A section describing a suite of
tests which will run against a single dataset.  Put \fItest_suite_name\fR in the
environment variable \fBIMOD_TEST_SECTION\fR to run the test suite.  There is
one test directory and one dataset per test.  There can be multiple Test
Autodocs per test suite (see below).  Order counts in this section.  For best
results order the commands as they are ordered in this man page.
.RE

.TP 4
.B set.var.\fIvariable_name\fB = \fR[\fIvalue\fR]
Causes a variable called \fIvariable_name\fR to be set to \fIvalue\fR.
Variables can be set anywhere in the this section and will be available for use
immediately.  Variables set in the Test Section are in force for the
entire test.  See Variables and Scope above.  It is usually important to create
a global variable called \fBdataset\fR.  Set this variable before setting the
dataset because it is usually used in the Dataset section.
.RE

.TP 4
.B set\fR[\fB.keep\fR]\fB.testdir\fB = \fItest_directory
Required.  Only one is allowed.  Give the location where the test suites will be
run.  \fITest_Directory\fR will be created under \fB./UITests\fR.  If the
directory already exists and the \fBkeep\fR modifier was not used, the directory
will be deleted and re-added.  The \fBkeep\fR modifier makes it possible to test
a partially completed dataset by keeping the \fItest_directory\fR from being
deleted.  This command also causes two global variables to be created:  \fBtestdir\fR,
which contains the directory path of the test directory, and \fBtestdir-name\fR, which
contains the name of the test directory.

.TP 4
.B set.adoc.\fItest_section_type\fR[\fB.\fR(\fBa\fR|\fBb\fR)]\fB = \fItest_autodoc_name\fB.adoc
Required.  Creates a test.  Sets a test autodoc for the test, and a section type
to be tested.  It is also used to set the axis for the test (\fBa\fR or \fBb\fR
- the default is single axis).  If more then one test is being done, the axis
letter will serve as a test name and must be unique in the \fBset.adoc\fR
commands in the Test section.  The test can be refered to by the axis
letter set here.  This axis letter is also used in the Dataset section to
copy the correct files for the axis.  \fItest_autodoc_name\fB.adoc\fR should be
placed in the directory pointed to by the environment variable
\fBIMOD_UITEST_SOURCE\fR.

.TP 4
.B set.dataset = \fIdataset_dir
Required.  Only one allowed.  Causes the Dataset Section for this test
suite to be read and executed.  See the Dataset Section below.

.TP 4
.B copy.file\fR[\fB.\fR(\fBa\fR|\fBb\fR)]\fB = \fIfile_name
Causes a file called \fIfile_name\fR to be copied from \fIdataset_dir\fR (see
the Dataset Section header) to the \fBtestdir\fR (see Test Section above).  The
file will only be copied if the axis matches the axis of one of the autodocs
listed in the Test Section.  If the \fBset.dataset\fR command in the
Test Section used the \fBkeep\fR modifier, then the file is only copied if
it is not already in the \fBtestdir\fR.  Must appear after the \fBset.dataset\fR
command.

.TP 4
.B set.interface.\fIinterface_section_name\fB =
Required to be in either the Test section or the Dataset section.  Sets the
Interface Section associated with the dataset.  Must appear after the \fBset.dataset\fR
command.
.RE

.TP 4
.B set.param = \fIparameter
Causes \fBetomo\fR to be run with \fIparameter\fR added to the commmand line.
More then one \fBset.param\fR command can be used.  \fIParameter\fRs will be
added to the command line in the order they appear in the Test Section.
.RS 4

.TP 4
Examples

# Send the names of fields to the out log.
.br
set.param = --names
.br
# Open a existing dataset.
.br
set.param = BB.edf
.RE


.TP 4
.B Dataset Section
.B [dataset = \fIdataset_dir\fB]
.br
.I command
.br
 .
.br
 .
.br
 .

.RS 4
.P
Required.  Only valid in \fBuitest.adoc\fR.  The section that describes the
dataset settings and files that will be copied into the directory where the
suite of tests will be run.  \fIDataset_dir\fR is a set of two directories containing
files that can be copied to the \fItest_directory\fR (see \fBset.testdir\fR under Test
Section).  One directory (the directory pointed to by the environment variable
\fBIMOD_UITEST_IMAGE_DATA\fR) contains the image files.  The other directory (the
directory pointed to by the environment variable \fBIMOD_UITEST_DATA\fR) contains
non-image files.  Order counts in this section.
For best results order the commands as they are ordered in this man page.

.TP 4
.B copy.file\fR[\fB.\fR(\fBa\fR|\fBb\fR)]\fB = \fIfile_name
Causes a file called \fIfile_name\fR to be copied from \fIdataset_dir\fR (see
the Dataset Section header) to the \fBtestdir\fR (see Test Section above).  The
file will only be copied if the axis matches the axis of one of the autodocs
listed in the Test Section.  If the \fBset.dataset\fR command in the
Test Section used the \fBkeep\fR modifier, then the file is only copied if
it is not already in the \fBtestdir\fR.

.TP 4
.B set.var.\fIvariable_name\fR[\fB.\fR(\fBa\fR|\fBb\fR)]]\fB = \fR[\fIvalue\fR]
Causes a variable called \fIvariable_name\fR to be set to \fIvalue\fR.
Variables set in the Dataset Section are in force for the entire test.
See Variables and Scope above.  If the axis letter is used then the variable is
only set for that axis.

.TP 4
.B set.interface.\fIinterface_section_name\fB =
Required to be in either the Test section or the Dataset section.  Sets the
Interface Section associated with the dataset.
.RE

.TP 4
.B use.dataset = \fIdataset_dir
Take all the settings, except the \fIdataset_dir\fR, from another dataset
section.
.RE

.TP 4
.B Interface Section
.B [interface = \fIinterface_section_name\fB]
.br
.I command
.br
 .
.br
 .
.br
 .
 
.RS 4
.P
Required.  Only valid in \fBuitest.adoc\fR.  A section describing an interface.
Currently there are four interface:  Reconstruction, PEET, Parallel-Processing,
and Join.  An Interface Section describes how to open an interface.  It
also describes how to open and go to the frames and dialogs used with the
interface.  The commands in this section are not run in order; they are run when
it is time to manipulate an interface, frame, or dialog.  This means the
commands are retrieved with a unique key.  The portion of each command which is
used as the key (and must be unique in its section) is enclosed in "<>" below.

.TP 4
<\fBgoto.frame\fR[\fB.\fR(\fBa\fR|\fBb\fR)]>\fB.\fIfield =
Required.  Contains the \fIfield\fR command to grab the \fBmain-frame\fR or the
\fBsub-frame\fR.  This command is run every time control is passed to an Autodoc
Tester once the \fBopen = interface\fR subsection has been run once.  Only the command
which matches the Autodoc Tester's axis will be run.
See Grammer above.
.RS 4

.TP 4
Examples
goto.frame.pnl.main-frame =
.br
goto.frame.a.pnl.main-frame =
.br
goto.frame.b.pnl.sub-frame =
.RE

.TP 4
<\fBopen.dialog.\fIdialog_name\fR>\fB.\fIfield\fB =
Optional.  A command to open a dialog.  \fIDialog_name\fR is a section name in a
Test Autodoc (see below).  The rest of the command is the \fIfield\fR command
that must be executed to open the dialog.
.br
Example:  open.dialog.PreProc.bn.pre = 

.P
<\fB[[open = interface]]\fR>
.br
	\fIcommand\fR
.br
	.
.br
	.
.br
	.
.br
.B [[]]
.RS 4
.P
The Open Interface Subsection.  Optional.  Provides a way to open
interfaces which don't open automatically.  The subsection is
automatically run one time when A axis or single axis test loop starts.  It
does not use \fBgoto.frame\fR command to grab the panel, so a \fBpnl\fR
field command should be the first command in the subsection.
.TP 4
Example
[[open = interface]]
.br
	pnl.main-frame =
.br
	mn.tools =
.br
	mn.flatten-volume =
.br
[[]]
.RE
.RE


.SS Other Autodocs
\fIautodoc_file_name\fB.adoc

.TP 4
.B Test Autodoc
Test Autodocs are refered to by the \fBset.adoc.\fItest_section_type\fR command
in the \fBuitest.adoc\fR Test Sections.  Sections of \fItest_section_type\fR
will be tested in the order in which they appear in a Test Autodoc.  The tester
is called the Autodoc Tester.  The sections being tested in this way are called
Dialog Sections.  A variable called axis is created for each Test Autodoc.

.TP 4
.B Dialog Section
.B [\fItest_section_type\fB = \fIdialog_section_name\fB]
.br
.I command
.br
 .
.br
 .
.br
 .
 
.RS 4
.P
Required in a Test Autodoc.  A Dialog Section describes a test against a dialog
or tab panel.  \fITest_section_type\fR must match a \fBset.adoc\fR command
placed in the Test Section being used.  The
\fItest_section_type\fR/\fIdialog_section_name\fR combination must be unique in
the autodoc.  This is because \fIdialog_section_names\fR are recorded when their
section is finished (see the \fBwait.test\fR command below).  Dialog Sections
have their own scope.  Order counts in this section.
.RE

.TP 4
.B Function Section
.B [\fIfunction_section_type\fB = \fIfunction_section_name]
.br
.I command
.br
 .
.br
 .
.br
 .
 
.RS 4
.P
A Function Section has its own scope and is called like a function; the Autodoc
Tester jumps to it, executes it, and then goes back to the location where the
call was made and continues from there.  A Function Section may be in the same
autodoc as the Dialog Sections, or it can be in a different autodoc.  A Dialog
Section can also be called as a Function Section.  See \fBset.adoc\fR and
\fBrun.function\fR, below, for information on how to jump to a Function Section.
Order counts in this section.
.RE

.TP 4
.B assert.\fR(\fBenabled\fR|\fBdisabled\fR)\fB.\fR(\fBbn\fR|\fBcb\fR|\fBcbb\fR|\fBmn\fR|\fBmb\fR|\fBrb\fR|\fBsp\fR|\fBtf\fR)\fB = 
Tests whether the \fIfield\fR is enabled or disabled.  Panel and tabs are not
valid for this command.
.RS 4

.P
Example:  assert.enabled.bn.compute-alignment =
.RE

.TP 4
.B assert.\fR(\fBbn\fR|\fBcb\fR|\fBrb\fR)\fB.\fIname\fR[\fB.\fIindex\fR] = \fIboolean
Tests whether \fIboolean\fR matches the state of the button, check box, or radio
button.  \fIBoolean\fR refers to whether the button has been pressed (a button
that has been pressed is dark), the check box is checked, or the radio button is
selected.

.TP 4
.B assert.contains.file = \fR(\fIfile_name\fR|\fIrelative_path\fR)\fB|\fIliteral_string
Tests whether a file in the \fItest_directory\fR called \fIfile_name\fR contains
\fIliteral_string\fR.  All or part of the \fIliteral_string\fR can be quoted with
double quotes (\fB" "\fR) to prevent variable substitution.  The wildcard (\fB*\fR)
will work in \fIliteral_string\fR.  The \fIliteral_string\fR can only contain one
line.  \fILiteral_string\fR doesn't have to start at the beginning of the line, 
or go on until the end of the line.
Note that the "\fB|\fR" is part of the command.  It is used for making a list of values.

.TP 4
.B assert.\fR(\fBexists\fR|\fBnot-exists\fR)\fB.file = \fR(\fIfile_name\fR|\fIrelative_path\fR)
Tests whether a file exists or does not exist.  \fIFile_name\fR or
\fIrelative_path\fR is assumed to be in the \fItest_directory\fR.  See
\fBset.testdir\fR in UITest Autodoc.

.TP 4
.B assert.same.file = \fR(\fIfile_name\fR|\fIrelative_path\fR)[\fB|\fIcompare_to_file_name\fR]
Compare a file to another file.  If \fIcompare_to_file_name\fR is not used,
the file is compared to another file of the same name stored in
$IMOD_UITEST_DATA.  If \fIcompare_to_file_name\fR is used, the file is compared
to a file called \fIcompare_to_file_name\fR, which is stored in
$IMOD_UITEST_DATA.
Files are sorted and then compared line by line, with comments and blank lines
being ignored.  \fIFile_name\fR or
\fIrelative_path\fR is assumed to be in the \fItest_directory\fR.  See
\fBset.testdir\fR in UITest Autodoc.

.TP 4
.B assert.mb.\fIassociated_name\fR[\fB.\fIindex\fR]\fB = \fImini-button_label
Tests whether \fImini-button_label\fR matches the current label of the
mini-button.

.TP 4
.B assert.sp.\fIspinner_name\fR[\fB.\fIindex\fR]\fB = \fInumber
Tests whether \fInumber\fR equals the number in the text field of the spinner.

.TP 4
.B assert.\fR(\fBge\fR|\fBle\fR)\fB.\fBtf.\fItext_field_name\fR[\fB.\fIindex\fR]\fB = \fIvalue
Tests whether the text field value is greater or equal to or less then or equal
to \fIvalue\fR.

.TP 4
.B bn.\fIbutton_name\fR[\fB.\fIindex\fR]\fB =
Press a button called \fIbutton_name\fR.  See Naming above.

.TP 4
.B cb.\fIcheck_box_name\fR[\fB.\fIindex\fR]\fB = \fR[\fIboolean\fR]
Click a check box called \fIcheck_box_name\fR.  If \fIboolean\fR is present, the
check box will only be clicked if it is NOT the same as \fIboolean\fR.
.RS 4
.TP 4
Example
# Turn on parallel processing if it not already on.
.br
cb.parallel-processing = on
.RE

.TP 4
.B cbb.\fIcombo_box_name\fR[\fB.\fIindex\fR]\fB = \fIvalue
Add a new \fIvalue\fR in a combo box and select it.

.TP 4
.B copy\fR[\fB.always\fR]\fB.file = \fIfile_name\fR[\fB|\fIto_file_name\fR]
Causes a file called \fIfile_name\fR to be copied from \fIdataset_dir\fR (see
UITest Autodoc - Dataset Section) to \fItest_directory\fR (see
\fBset.testdir\fR).  If the \fBset.testdir\fR command in the Test Section
used the \fBkeep\fR modifier, and \fBalways\fR is not used in this command, then
only copy the file if it is not already in the \fItest_directory\fR.

.TP 4
.B end =
The function of \fBend\fR depends on where it is placed.  In a top level
function in a single axis test, it ends the test immediately.  In a top
level function running the B axis test, it ends the B axis test.  In a lower level
function it stops the test for the axis.  This last option lets both axes get to the same
place.

.TP 4
.B format\fR[\fB.\fIfield\fR]\fB =
Has eTomo format itself and then, optionally, executes \fIfield\fR.

.P
.B [[if\fR[\fBnot\fR]\fB = \fIvariable_name\fB]]
.br
	\fIcommand\fR
.br
	.
.br
	.
.br
	.
.br
.B [[]]
.RS 4
.P
If and Ifnot Subsections function like simple, non-nestable if statements.  They
have their own scope.  If Subsections are only executed if the variable called
\fIvariable_name\fR has been defined.  Ifnot Subsections are only executed if
the variable called \fIvariable_name\fR has not been defined.
\fIVariable_name\fR may not start with "=".  The indentation is for readability
and is not required.
.RE

.TP 4
.B if.\fR(\fBenabled\fR|\fBdisabled\fR)\fB.\fIfield\fB.\fIsubcommand\fB = \fR[\fIsubcommand_value\fR]
If \fIfield\fR is \fBenabled\fR/\fBdisabled\fR, execute the \fIsubcommand\fR.

.TP 4
.B if.\fR(\fBequals\fR|\fBnot-equal\fR)\fB.var.\fIvariable_name\fB.\fIsubcommand\fB = \fR[\fIvariable_value\fR]
Compares a variable called \fIvariable_name\fR to \fIvariable_value\fR using
either \fBequals\fR or \fBnot-equals\fR.  If the result is true, execute the
\fIsubcommand\fR.  If the result is false, continue without executing the
\fIsubcommand\fR.  Only subcommands without values can be used in this
statement.

.TP 4
.B if.exists.\fIfield\fB.\fIsubcommand = \fR[\fIsubcommand_value\fR]
Execute a \fIsubcommand\fR if a field exists.

.TP 4
.B if\fR[\fB.not\fR]\fB.var.\fIvariable_name\fB.\fIfield\fB = \fR[\fIfield_value\fR]
Execute a \fIfield\fR command if a variable called \fIvariable_name\fR has
either been defined or not been defined, depending on whether \fBnot\fR is used.

.TP 4
.B if\fR[\fB.not\fR]\fB.var.\fIvariable_name\fB.\fIsubcommand\fB = \fR[\fIsubcommand_value\fR]
Execute a \fIsubcommand\fR if a variable called \fIvariable_name\fR has either
been defined or not been defined, depending on whether \fBnot\fR is used.

.TP 4
.B if.not-exists.\fIfield\fB.\fIsubcommand = \fR[\fIsubcommand_value\fR]
Execute a \fIsubcommand\fR if a field does not exist.
  
.TP 4
.B if.wait.\fBprocess.\fIprocess_name\fB.\fIsubcommand\fB = \fIprogress_state
A wait that returns a boolean value based on whether an intermediate
\fIprogress_state\fR was detected.  If the \fIprogress_state\fR is not detected,
this command will stop waiting and return false when the process ends.
The \fIprocess_name\fR comes from the string describing the process, which
appears at the top of the window when the process is running (see Naming).
The \fIprogress_state\fR is all or part of the text expected in the progress
bar.  This command may miss the \fIprogress_state\fR if it is displayed for a
only short time.

.TP 4
.B mb.\fIassociated_name\fR[\fB.\fIindex\fR]\fB = \fR[\fImini-button_label\fR]
Press a mini-button.  The mini-buttons are small, square buttons with
one of the following symbols on them:  \fB>\fR, \fB<\fR, \fB+\fR, \fB-\fR,
\fBA\fR, or \fBB\fR.  They are refered to by their \fIassociated_name\fR, which
is the name of the panel they are on, or the field they are related to.  See
Naming.  Use \fIindex\fR if there is more then one mini-button with the same
\fIassociated_name\fR of the same name.  Mini-button are two-state buttons.  If
\fImini-button_label\fR is used, the button is only pressed if the button's
current label matches \fImini-button_label\fR.
.RS 4

.TP 4
Examples
# Open the Parallel Processing panel.
.br
mb.parallel-process = +
.br
# Show less of the Parallel Processing panel.
.br
mb.parallel-process.1 = <
.br
# Show advanced fields in the Tilt panel
.br
mb.tilt.1 = A
.br
# Close the Trial Tilt panel
.br
mb.trial-tilt = -
.RE

.TP 4
.B mn.\fImenu_choice\fB =
Click on a pull-down menu choice.
.RS 4

.TP 4
Examples
# Open a new PEET interface
.br
mn.file =
.br
mn.new-peet =
.RE

.TP 4
.B open.dialog.\fIdialog_name\fB =
Tells the autodoc tester that it must call the \fBopen.dialog.\fIdialog_name\fR
command in the current \fBinterface\fR section.

.TP 4
.B pnl.\fIpanel_name\fB =
Go to a panel named \fIpanel_name\fR.  See Naming.  It is usually only a good
idea to go to a panel associated with one of the frames.  The other panels are
usually too limiting.  For instance a Done button will be outside of a dialog
panel and therefore unreachable.
.RS 4

.TP 4
Examples
pnl.main-frame =
.br
pnl.sub-frame =
.RE

.TP 4
.B rb.\fIradio_button_name\fR[\fB.\fIindex\fR]\fB =
Press a radio button called \fIradio_button_name\fR.  If there are multiple
radio buttons of the same name, use \fIindex\fR.  See Naming above.

.TP 4
.B return\fR[\fB.var.\fIvariable_name\fR]\fB =
Closes the current scope.  If the return is used in a Dialog Section, the
current Dialog Section will end and the Autodoc Tester will go on to the next
Dialog section.  If the return is used in function section, the Autodoc Tester
will leave the section and go to the command following the function call.  If
the return is used in a subsection, the Autodoc Tester will go to the command
after the end of the subsection.  When \fBvar.\fIvariable_name\fR is used it
also passes a local variable up to the enclosing scope when it returns.

.TP 4
.B run.function.\fIfunction_section_name\fB =
Executes a section like a function; jumps to the other section, executes it, and
then jumps back.  The function will be in the file specified by the most recent
\fBset.adoc\fR command.  The section type of the function must be set by a
\fBset.adoc\fR command prior to running the function.  Functions contain the
same commands used in Dialog Sections.  For exampes see \fBset.adoc\fR.

.TP 4
.B save =
Saves the dataset.  Equivalent to \fBmn.file\fR followed by \fBmn.save\fR, but
more reliable for when it is the result of the save and not the menu functionality
that is being tested.  Command is ignored if the "Save" menu option is disabled.

.TP 4
.B set.adoc.\fIfunction_section_type\fB = \fR[\fIfile_name\fB.adoc\fR]
Sets an autodoc containing sections that will be called like functions using the
\fBrun.function\fR command.  If \fIfile_name\fB.adoc\fR is not used, then the
command refers to the current autodoc.  \fIfunction_section_type\fR set the type of
section that can be called.  Only the most recent \fBset.adoc\fR command in the
current scope remains in force.  The Autodoc Tester looks for autodocs in the
directory pointed to by the environment variable \fBIMOD_UITEST_SOURCE\fR.
.RS 4

.TP 4
Examples
# Call [dialog = PreProc] in current autodoc.
.br
set.adoc.dialog =
.br
run.function.PreProc =
.br
# Call [function = main] in setup-recon.adoc.
.br
set.adoc.function = setup-recon.adoc
.br
run.function.main =
.RE

.TP 4
.B set.debug = \fIboolean
Turns debug on and off.  Debug causes any debug statements available in the the
test software and in Etomo to print.  Turning debug off may not completely stop
debug prints because class instances may have been created with debug while it
was on.  Debug in Etomo can also be turned on by using the \fBset.param\fR
command in the Test Section.  Turning debug off with the \fBset.debug\fR command
will always turn off debug in Etomo.

.TP 4
.B set.index.cbb_field = \fIindex
Select an existing \fIindex\fR in a combo box.

.TP 4
.B set.var.\fIvariable_name\fB = \fR[\fIvariable_value\fR]
Sets a variable called \fIvariable_name\fR to \fIvariable value\fR.  To refer to
the variable later, use \fB%{\fIvariable_name\fB}\fR.  See Variables above.

.TP 4
.B skipto.section.\fIdialog_section_name\fB =
For Dialog Sections only.  Immediately exits the current Dialog Section and
jumps to a later Dialog Section called \fIdialog_section_name\fR.

.TP 4
.B sleep = \fR[\fItime_in_milliseconds\fR]
Tells the tester to sleep for \fItime_in_milliseconds\fR.  The default time is
1000.

.TP 4
.B sp.\fIspinner_name\fR[\fB.\fIindex\fR]\fB = \fR(\fInumber\fR|\fIspinner_arrow\fR)
Changes the number in the spinner's editor panel or presses an up or down arrow
one time.

.TP 4
(\fBsp\fR|\fBtf\fR).\fItable_label\fB-\fIrow_label\fB-\fItop_column_label\fR[\fB.\fIindex_within_column\fR]\fB = \fR[\fIvalue\fR]
Works just like a regular field command and can be used in the same places,
except that the name and index refer to a field in a table.  \fITable_label\fR
is the name of the table.  \fIRow_label\fR is the name of the left most column
in the table.  \fITop_column_label\fR is the name of the header in the top row.
See Naming to learn how these names are created from the text displayed on the
dialog.  The \fIindex_within_column\fR is used when columns share a top row
header.  The first column on the left will have a default index of 0.  This
functionality has not been implemented for all columns and tables.
.RS 4

.TP 4
Examples
# Fill in the rotation angles in the third row.
.br
tf.section-table-3-rotation-angles.0 = 0
.br
tf.section-table-3-rotation-angles.1 = 180
.br
tf.section-table-3-rotation-angles.2 = 0
.br
# Adjust the boundary between sections 2 and 3.
.br
sp.boundary-table-2-&-3-adjusted = up
.RE

.TP 4
.B tb.\fIfirst_tab_name\fR[\fB.\fIindex\fR]\fB =
Click on a tab.  Tabs are all named after the first tab.  The rest must be
referred to with index.  See Naming above.

.TP 4
.B tf.\fItext_field_name\fR[\fB.\fIindex\fR]\fB = \fR[\fItext\fR|\fInumber\fR]
Write value to a text field called \fItext_field_name\fR.  If there are multiple
text fields of the same name, use \fIindex\fR.  See Naming above.

.TP 4
.B touch.dir = \fIdirectory_name
Causes the last modified date of the directory called \fIdirectory_name\fR
in the \fItest_directory\fR (see \fBset.testdir\fR) to be changed to the current
date and time.  If the directory doesn't exist, this command creates an empty
directory called \fIdirectory_name\fR in the \fItest_directory\fR.

.TP 4
.B touch.file = \fIfile_name
Causes the last modified date of the file called \fIfile_name\fR in the
\fItest_directory\fR (see \fBset.testdir\fR) to be changed to the current date
and time.  If the file doesn't exist, this command creates an empty file called
\fIfile_name\fR in the \fItest_directory\fR.

.TP 4
.B unset.var.\fIvariable_name\fB = 
Removes a variable called \fIvariable_name\fR.  A variable can only be removed in
the scope where it was created.

.TP 4
.B wait.file-chooser.\fIfile_chooser_name\fB = \fIfile
Wait for a file chooser named \fIfile_chooser_name\fR.  Identifies the file
chooser by its title, which is converted to a name (see Naming).  When the file
chooser appears, choose \fIfile\fR and close the file chooser.
.RS 4

.TP 4
Example
# Open a file chooser and add a section
.br
bn.add-section =
.br
wait.file-chooser.choose-a-section = %{dataset}3.rec
.RE

.TP 4
.B wait.popup.\fIpopup_name\fB = \fIpopup_button_name
Used to find a popup dialog.  Identifies the popup by its title, which is
converted to a name (see Naming).  Presses the button on the popup identified by
\fIpopup_button_name\fR.

.TP 4
.B wait.\fBprocess.\fIprocess_name\fB = done\fR|\fBfailed\fR|\fBkilled\fR|\fBpaused
Waits for a process to reach the specified end state.  The \fIprocess_name\fR
comes from the string describing the process, which appears at the top of the
window when the process is running (see Naming).  The Autodoc Tester will wait
until process is done before comparing the value of this command to the string
in the progress bar.  This command should only be used for a single process, or
the last process in a sequence.


.TP 4
.B wait.test.\fR(\fBa\fR|\fBb\fR)\fB = \fIdialog_section_name
Causes the test to wait until another test has completed a Dialog Section named dialog_section_name.
.RS 4

.TP 4
Example
# In the B axis, wait for Fine Alignment to complete in the A axis.
.br
wait.test.a = FineAlign
.br
# In the A axis, wait for Tomogram Generation to complete in the B axis.
.br
wait.test.b = TomoGen
.RE

.TP 4
.B write.file = \fIfile_name\fB|\fIliteral_string
Append a new line and \fIliteral_string\fR to \fIfile_name\fR.  Double quotes (\fB" "\fR)
can be used to avoid variable substitution.

.SH EXAMPLES

.TP 4
Excerpt from a makefile (\fBuitest.make\fR) used to run multiple test suites
all: single dual
.br
single:
.br
	$(IMOD_UITEST_SCRIPT)/uitest single
.br
dual:
.br
	$(IMOD_UITEST_SCRIPT)/uitest dual

.TP 4
Test Section for a dual axis reconstruction
[Test = dual]
.br
# Create a test directory called dual.
.br
set.testdir = dual
.br
# Use reconA.adoc as a Test Autodoc - axis set to "a".
.br
set.adoc.dialog.a=reconA.adoc
.br
# Use reconB.adoc as a Test Autodoc - axis set to "b".
.br
set.adoc.dialog.b=reconB.adoc
.br
# Use the dataset BB
.br
set.dataset = BB

.TP 4
Using the same Test Autodoc for two Autodoc Testers
[Test = dual]
.br
set.testdir = dual
.br
# Use a "dialog" section type in recon.adoc for axis A.
.br
set.adoc.dialog.a=recon.adoc
.br
# Use a "bdialog" section type in recon.adoc for axis B.
.br
set.adoc.bdialog.b=recon.adoc
.br
set.dataset = BB
.RS 4

.P
The Autodoc Tester for Axis A runs the sections with a section type of
"dialog".  The Autodoc Tester for Axis B runs the sections with a section type
of "bdialog".
.RE

.TP 4
Using variables
[Test = single-montage]
.br
set.testdir = single-montage
.br
# Only need one Test Autodoc - axis is set to "".
.br
set.adoc.dialog = recon.adoc
.br
# Using midzone2 as the dataset.
.br
set.dataset = midzone2
.br
# Create a variable called single.
.br
set.var.single=
.br
# Create a variable called montage.
.br
set.var.montage=
.RS 4
.P
In recon.adoc use these variables to decide which radio buttons to check and
which processes to wait for.

.SH AUTHOR
Sue Held

.SH SEE ALSO
etomo(1), imodenv(1), pip(1).
