.na
.nh
.TH vmstocsh 1 4.6.34 BL3DEMC
.SH NAME
vmstocsh - converts VMS-style command file to C-shell script
.SH SYNOPSIS
vmstocsh  [output log file]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
Vmstocsh takes a VMS-style command file from standard input and
converts it to text suitable for piping to a C shell, on standard
output.  The command file may contain: lines to run programs, which
must be preceded by either a $ or a %; comment lines, preceded by
either $! or #; and entries to the programs that are run, which
follow the line starting the program, just as in a VMS command file.
If a command line to run a program is too long, it may be broken
into multiple lines by ending each line except the last one with a \\.
If it is necessary to have the command line itself passed to the shell
as multiple lines, end a line with \\\\ instead of \\.  The command up to
that point will be output with the \\\\ converted to a \\, and next line
will be output on a separate line.  In either case, the continuation
lines should not start with a $ or %.
.P
Many C shell commands can be included in the command file as long as they
are prefixed by $ or %.  Specifically, variables may be defined with set
and accessed with $variable.  If a variable needs to appear at the
beginning of a line that is an entry to a program, the line should start
with \\$ and this will be converted to $ instead of interpreted as a
command line.  This conversion happens only at the beginning of a line.
.P
If there is a command-line argument, that argument will be set up
as a log file: the text output of each command will be directed
into this log file.
.P
The easiest way to use this program is through the submbg script
together with an alias to run submbg in the background, such as
.P
    alias subm 'submfg \\!^ & '
.P
With this alias, if your command file is stuff.com, you can give the
command "subm -s stuff" and the file will be executed in background, a
log file stuff.log will be created, and you will be notified when the
job is completed.  Type 'submfg' to see the usage statement for more
details.
.SH HISTORY
.nf
Written by David Mastronarde, 4/24/1995
.fi
.SH BUGS
Email bug reports to mast@colorado.edu.
