.na
.nh
.TH vmstopy 1 3.8.26 BL3DEMC
.SH NAME
vmstopy - converts IMOD command file to Python script
.SH SYNOPSIS
vmstopy  [option]  com_filename  log_filename  [output_file]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Vmstopy is a Python program for converting an IMOD command file into a Python
script that will run commands in the file and direct output to a log file.
Commands can consist of a single line running a program with command line
arguments, or a line running a program followed by entries that the program
will read from standard input.  Python statements can also be included in
the file, and variables can be defined in Python then used in the command or
standard input lines.  A small number of C-shell commands will also be
recognized and translated to the appropriate Python statements.
.P
The easiest way to use this program is through the submfg script
together with an alias to run submfg in the background, which is provided in
the IMOD startup scripts as the alias subm.  If you command file is named
"stuff.pcm", you can give the command "subm stuff".  If it is named with a
different extension, such as the traditional ".com", you need to indicate
that the command file is to be run into vmstopy by using "subm -p stuff".
In either case, the file will be executed in background, a
log file stuff.log will be created, and you will be notified when the
job is completed.  Type "submfg" to see the usage statement for more
details.

.SS Special Characters
Four special characters are used:

$ at the start of a command line.  Commands may be continued on multiple lines
by ending each line except the last one with a backslash (\\).  The
continuation lines should not start with a $

> at the start of a Python statement

% for a variable to be substituted; this may occur anywhere in a command line
or a standard input line.  Variable substitution will always convert the
variable to a string, so the value can be an unquoted string or a simple
numeric value.  Lists of numbers should be quoted (e.g., '1-5').

# at the start of a line with a comment.  A # later in a line will not be
recognized as starting a comment.  $! at the start of a line is also
recognized as a comment

Standard input lines do not start with a special character.  The program will
consider any lines between a command line and the next command line or Python
statement as lines to be fed to the command's standard input.

.SS Indentation and Quoting
If there are any Python statements starting with >, then indentation is
significant, not only in the Python statements but also in the command lines.
Any commands that occur in a Python block must have the
appropriate indentation; i.e., with extra indentation if they follow a
statement that starts a block; with the same indentation as the last statement
if it is part of the same block, or with less indentation if it ends a block.
If you use no Python at all, spaces between the $ and the command will be
removed from command lines to avoid indentation errors.  Standard input lines
need not be indented.
.P
The program will enclose the text that used to run a command, in single
quotes (' ') and text that is input to programs in triple quotes (""" """).  
If you need to pass a command line argument containing spaces
to a program, enclose it in double quotes (" ").  Do not escape spaces with
backslashes.  Backslashes should appear only in Windows file paths.  These
will be converted to forward slashes.
.SS Translations
The following translations will occur.  Some of these are generally useful,
some are needed to support constructs in existing command files for tomogram
processing.

$goto label 
.br
will skip forward to the next command line starting with 
.br
$label:
.br
Unlike in C-shell, the goto can be used only to skip forward, and it cannot be
part of a conditional statement.  The goto's and labels are recognized and
removed in a first pass through the command file.  Any more complicated
conditional execution must be coded with Python statements.

$if (-e file) command
.br
will be converted to 
.br
> if os.path.exists(file):
.br
$   command

$if (! -e file) command
.br
will be converted to 
.br
> if not os.path.exists(file):
.br
$   command

$set tmpdir = 
.br
and the 1-3 following lines will replaced by 
.br
> tmpdir = imodTempDir() 
.br
provided that either the following line contains "settmpdir", or the next
three lines contain "if", "settmpdir", and "endif"

$set variable = value   becomes   >variable = value
.br
and "value" is quoted unless it can be assigned to a numeric variable

If "$set" has been used at all, $variable will be substituted just like
%variable. 

$setenv variable value   becomes   >os.environ['variable'] = 'value'

This is generally to set the environment for programs that will be run, but
these and other environment variables may be accessed within the command file
provided that they are all upper case (A-Z, 0-9, and underscore are allowed)
and enclosed in braces.  In other words, 
.br
${ENV_VAR}     becomes     os.environ('ENV_VAR').

\\rm, \\rm -f, rm, and rm -f   all become   b3dremove -g

cp or \\cp   become   b3dcopy, and if the following line has a chmod, -p is
added to the b3dcopy

\\rm -r, \\rm -rf, rm -r and rm -rf   are all replaced by a call to shutil.rmtree

mkdir   is replaced by a call to os.mkdir

\\mv   becomes   mv -f

$if (-e file) mv file file~    is replaced by a call to the makeBackupFile function

$echo text   becomes   >print "text"   after substituting variables in "text"

$exit
.br
will cause the rest of the command file to be skipped, whereas
.br
$exit n
.br
will result in calling a function that terminates with sys.exit(n), but
further lines will be processed.

>print "text"   becomes   >prnstr("text", file=log)
.br
In other words, in Python statements, print commands not directed to a file
will be redirected to the log file.  prnstr is function that works for
printing with both Python 2.x and Python 3.x.

b3dremove      becomes     b3dremove -g    on Windows
.br
On other systems, wildcards in the filename list are expanded by the shell
that runs the command, but on Windows, b3dremove needs to glob the filenames.

$if ($status) goto label
.br
When this construct is present, the program will collect lines between "label:" and
"exit n" and move them into a function.  When the construct is encountered
after running a command, a call to the function is inserted in the exception
handler for the command.  

$vmstocsh com.log < com.com
.br
When this construct is encountered, the line containing it, through a line
containing "csh -ef", are replaced with commands to run vmstopy and to run the
resulting script.

`hostname`    is substituted with the computer hostname upon execution; Note
that "hostname" must be enclosed in back-quotes (as for command execution in
a shell); this character may not appear properly here.

$$     is replaced by the PID of the Python running the command file

Certain commands are eliminated from the command file:
.br
$set nonomatch
.br
$matchshifts
.br
$sync    (on Windows)

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -x
Execute the script with a new Python instance.
.TP
.B -q
Suppress output messages about the progress of running the script.
.TP
.B -c
Output "CHUNK DONE" to the log file after successful execution.
.TP
.B -e \fIVAR=val\fR
Set the environment variable VAR to the given value at the beginning of the
script.  If no value is needed, "-e VAR" can be entered.  This option can be
entered as many times as needed.
.TP
.B -n \fI#\fR
Increment the process niceness by the given # at the beginning of the script.
.TP
.B -t
Run in test mode where all commands are prefixed by "echo2"; the output should
be runnable in Python.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
# Example 1: Command file to align an image stack
# Note the comments embedded in the input to xftoxg
#
$xftoxg
0       global fit
# Name of input file
g5a.prexf
# Name of output file
g5a.prexg
$newstack -fl 2 -mo 0 -xf g5a.prexg g5a.st g5a.preali


# Example 2: Command file to split a stack into two sets of files
# Note the indentation for Python and command lines
#
>for i in range(100):
>  if i % 2:
$    newstack -sec %i data.st oddsec.%i
>  else:
$    newstack -sec %i data.st evensec.%i
$header data.st
>print "Splitting done"

.fi
.SH AUTHOR
David Mastronarde,  mast@colorado.edu
.SH SEE ALSO
vmstocsh(1)
.SH HISTORY
Why vms and subm?  Parts of IMOD started under the VMS operating system.  The
ability to submit command files in this kind of format to a queue and get a
log file with the output was the one good feature of VMS.
