.na
.nh
.TH xfinterstack 1 4.6.34 BL3DEMC
.SH NAME
xfinterstack - transform a model to match model built on other stack
.SH SYNOPSIS
xfinterstack
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program will transform a model that has been built on one data
stack so that it will match the coordinates of a different data stack
that has some sections overlapping the first stack.
.P
To use it, you must first build a model file in which each object
has two points: the first point placed on a point in the first
data stack, the second point placed on the exactly corresponding
point on the same section in the second data stack.  This does not
require very many objects - 10 should be plenty.
.P
Entries to the program are:
.P
Name of the model file containing the objects with corresponding
points on an overlapping section.
.P
The Z value (typically the section #) for the points on the section
in the first data stack.  Only model objects whose first point has
this Z value will be included
.P
1 for a full report of deviations of points from perfect
correspondence (see below)
.P
(After the program solves for a transformation):
.br
Name of the model file to be transformed
.P
0 to transform model from fitting the first stack to fitting the
second stack, or 1 to transform it from fitting the second stack
to fitting the first stack.
.P
If the second point in each correspondence object has a different
Z value from the first point (i.e. if the two data stacks do not have
congruent Z coordinates), then the Z values of all points in the
model being transformed will be adjusted by the difference in Z's
of the correspondence points.
.P
When the program solves for the transformation between a pair of
sections, it applies the transformation to the points on the second
section of the pair, and computes the displacement, or deviation,
between each point and the corresponding point on the first section
of the pair.  It then reports the mean deviation for all of the
points, the maximum deviation, and the object number of the point
with maximum deviation.  In addition, you may elect to have a
complete report of the deviations of all points for particularly bad
sections.  If you choose this option, you control which sections are
reported by specifying criterion values for the mean and maximum
deviations; the full report will be made for any sections with mean
or maximum deviations greater than the respective criteria.
.SH HISTORY
.nf
Written by David Mastronarde, 1/4/90
.fi
.SH BUGS
Email bug reports to mast@colorado.edu.
