.na
.nh
.TH xfinverse 1 4.6.34 BL3DEMC
.SH NAME
xfinverse - forms the inverse of a list of transformations
.SH SYNOPSIS
xfinverse  [options]  input_file  output_file
.SH DESCRIPTION
Xfinverse will take the inverse of each transformation in a file.
The only option is whether to set the translations to zero or retain
them in the output.  The latter would give the true inverse, but the
former has been useful in arcane realignment procedures.
.P
The transform file can consist of warping transformations instead of simple
linear transforms.  The warping transforms can consist either of
displacements at sets of control points or displacements on a regular grid.
The output file has the same form as the input file.
.SH OPTIONS
Xfinverse uses the PIP package for input (see the
manual page for pip(1)). Thus, the following options can be specified
either as command line arguments (with the -) or one per line in a
command file (without the -):
.TP
.B -input OR -InputFile   \fIFile name\fR
File with transforms to be inverted.  If this option is not entered, the
first non-option argument will be used for this input file.
.TP
.B -output OR -OutputFile   \fIFile name\fR
Output file for inverse transforms.  If this option is not entered, the
second non-option argument will be used for the output file.
.TP
.B -zero OR -ZeroShifts
Set shifts to zero when taking inverse of linear transforms.
.TP
.B -help OR -usage
Print help output
.P
.P
If no command line arguments are entered, the program takes the following
inputs sequentially:
.P
Input file with list of transformations
.P
Output file for inverse transformations
.P
0 to set the translations (shifts) to zero, or one to retain them
and output the true inverse transformation
.SH HISTORY
.nf
Written by David Mastronarde, added to IMOD 4/21/00
Warping added, June 2011
.fi
.SH BUGS
Email bug reports to mast@colorado.edu.
