Version = 1.2

[function = run]
mb.parallel-processing-open = 0
tf.z-axis-min = %{z-axis-min}
tf.z-axis-max = %{z-axis-max}
bn.parallel-processing = 1
bn.create-combine-scripts =
waitfor.process = done
assert.file.exists = combine.com
assert.file.exists = matchorwarp.com
assert.file.exists = matchvol1.com
assert.file.exists = matchvol2.com
assert.file.exists = patchcorr.com
assert.file.exists = solvematch.com
assert.file.exists = volcombine.com
assert.file.exists = warpvol.com
bn.start-combine =
waitfor.process.processchunks = done
assert.file.exists = volcombine-finish.com
assert.file.exists = volcombine-start.com
assert.file.exists = volcombine-finish.log
assert.file.exists = volcombine-start.log
assert.file.exists = combine.log
assert.file.exists = matchorwarp.log
assert.file.exists = matchvol1.log
assert.file.exists = patchcorr.log
assert.file.exists = solvematch.log
bn.parallel-processing = 0
bn.restart-at-volcombine =
waitfor.process.volcombine = done
assert.file.exists = volcombine.log
bn.restart-at-volcombine =
waitfor.process.volcombine = done
sleep =
assert.file.exists = volcombine.log~
bn.parallel-processing = 1
tp.setup.0 = 
bn.start-combine =
waitfor.process.processchunks = done
assert.file.exists = volcombine-finish.log~
assert.file.exists = volcombine-start.log~
assert.file.exists = combine.log~
assert.file.exists = matchorwarp.log~
assert.file.exists = matchvol1.log~
assert.file.exists = patchcorr.log~
assert.file.exists = solvematch.log~
sleep = 
bn.done =
