Version = 1.2

[function = build]
bn.compute-alignment =
waitfor.process = done
tp.general.1 = 
rb.full-solution =
bn.compute-alignment =
waitfor.process = done
tp.general.0 =
cb.enable-local-alignments =
bn.compute-alignment =
waitfor.process = done
rb.neighboring-views =
bn.compute-alignment =
waitfor.process = done
bn.done =

[function = test]
bn.compute-alignment =
waitfor.process = done
tp.general.1 = 
rb.full-solution =
bn.compute-alignment =
waitfor.process = done
tp.general.0 =
cb.enable-local-alignments =
bn.compute-alignment =
waitfor.process = done
rb.neighboring-views =
bn.compute-alignment =
waitfor.process = done
bn.done =
waitfor.popup.etomo-question = Yes
