Version = 1.2

[function = run]
mb.parallel-processing-open = 1
mb.parallel-processing-more = 1
mb.tilt-open = 1
cb.parallel-processing = 0
bn.generate-tomogram =
waitfor.process.tilt = done
assert.file.exists = tilt%{axis}.log
bn.generate-tomogram =
waitfor.process.tilt = done
assert.file.exists = tilt%{axis}.log~
cb.parallel-processing = 1
bn.generate-tomogram =
waitfor.process.processchunks = done
assert.file.exists = tilt%{axis}-finish.com
assert.file.exists = tilt%{axis}-start.com
assert.file.exists = tilt%{axis}-finish.log
assert.file.exists = tilt%{axis}-start.log
bn.generate-tomogram =
waitfor.process.processchunks = done
assert.file.exists = tilt%{axis}-finish.log~
assert.file.exists = tilt%{axis}-start.log~
bn.delete-aligned-image-stack =
