Version = 1.2

[function = run]
copy.file = %{dataset}%{axis}.fid
tf.sample-tomogram-thickness = %{sample-tomogram-thickness}
bn.create-sample-tomograms =
waitfor.process.sample = done
assert.file.exists = sample%{axis}.log
bn.create-sample-tomograms =
waitfor.process.sample = done
assert.file.exists = sample%{axis}.log~
copy.file = tomopitch%{axis}.mod
bn.compute-z-shift-&-pitch-angles =
waitfor.process.tomopitch = done
assert.file.exists = tomopitch%{axis}.log
bn.compute-z-shift-&-pitch-angles =
waitfor.process.tomopitch = done
assert.file.exists = tomopitch%{axis}.log~
bn.create-final-alignment =
waitfor.process.align = done
assert.file.exists = align%{axis}.log
bn.create-final-alignment =
waitfor.process.align = done
assert.file.exists = align%{axis}.log~
bn.done =

[function = run-fidless]
copy.file = %{dataset}%{axis}.fid
tf.sample-tomogram-thickness = %{sample-tomogram-thickness}
cb.use-whole-tomogram =
bn.create-whole-tomogram =
waitfor.process.tilt = done
assert.file.exists = newst%{axis}.log
assert.file.exists = tilt%{axis}.log
bn.create-whole-tomogram =
waitfor.process.tilt = done
assert.file.exists = newst%{axis}.log~
assert.file.exists = tilt%{axis}.log~
copy.file = tomopitch%{axis}.mod
bn.compute-z-shift-&-pitch-angles =
waitfor.process.tomopitch = done
assert.file.exists = tomopitch%{axis}.log
bn.compute-z-shift-&-pitch-angles =
waitfor.process.tomopitch = done
assert.file.exists = tomopitch%{axis}.log~
bn.done =

